INFANTRY TACTICS,

                                           FOR THE

      INSTRUCTION, EXERCISE, AND MANOEUVRES

                                               OF

 THE SOLDIER, A COMPANY, LINE OF SKIRMISHERS,
                     BATTALION, BRIGADE,

                                               OR

               CORPS D'ARMÉE.

                                    BY

   BRIG.-GEN. SILAS CASEY,

                                         U. S. ARMY.

                      ____________________
                                 Vol. II.

                             SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.

                      ____________________

                                  NEW YORK:
                D. VAN NOSTRAND, 192 BROADWAY

                                       1862.
    Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1862,
                     By D. VAN NOSTRAND,

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States,
              for the Southern District of New York.
CHANGES.  1

                                            ABBREVIATIONS.

                                 S. S. Will stand for School of the Soldier.
                                 S. C. Will stand for School of the Company.
                                 S. B. Will stand for School of the Battalion.
                                 E. B. Will stand for Evolutions of a Brigade.

                Paragraphs marked 0 are suspended, and may not be taught.

                                                  CHANGES.

         Paragraphs 94 and 95, S. B., will be applicable to any skirmishers from the battalion, the
duties indicated for the junior major can be assigned to any other officer by the colonel. In
paragraph 95 the words, "as indicated Nos. 84 and 86" will be omitted.

         Paragraph 156, S. B., will be applicable to any skirmishers from the battalion.
         Paragraph 158, S. B., will read as follows: "will serve equally for two, three, or five
divisions."
         Paragraph 342 will be applicable to any skirmishers, omitting after "No. 95."
         Paragraph 364, S. B., will be applicable to any skirmishers.
         Paragraphs 785 and 786, S. B., will be applicable to any skirmishers from the battalion.
         Paragraph 787, S. B., the latter part will read as follows: "They will take their proper
places in the line, under the direction of the colonel."
         Paragraphs 802, 803, and 804, S. B., will be applicable to any skirmishers from the
battalion.
         Paragraphs 901 and 902, S. B., are applicable to any skirmishers from the battalion; omit
the last sentence of 902.
         Add the following remarks to paragraph 910, S. B.: "If there are ten companies present,
the first, third, and fifth, should be behind the second, fourth, and sixth, and the tenth and eighth
should be behind the ninth and seventh. If there are nine companies, the ninth will be considered
a division column."
         Paragraph 912, S. B., add: "The same remark will apply to nine or to seven companies."
         Paragraph 928, S. B., add as follows: "When more than eight companies are present, at
the second command, the fifth company will face to the right, the sixth will stand fast. At the
command March, the fifth will take its place on the right of, and on a line with the sixth."
         Paragraph 934, S. B., add the following: "When more than eight companies are present,
at the second command, the sixth will stand fast, and the fifth will face to the left."
         Paragraph 936, S. B., add as follows: "When more than eight companies are present, the
sixth company will stand fast, and the fifth will take its place in its rear."
         On the second lines of paragraphs 1041, S. B., and 1045, S. B., for "last division" read
"next to the last division."
         Paragraph 1089, S. B., the latter clause will read as follows: "and take their proper
distances."
         Paragraphs 1196, 1197, 1198, and 1199, S. B., are applicable to any skirmishers from the
battalion.
ESCORT OF COLOR.  2

            INFANTRY TACTICS.

                                               _______________

                                TITLE V.

                                               _______________

                          SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.

                                     Formation of the Battalion.

         1. EVERY colonel will labor to habituate his battalion to form line of battle, by night as
well as by day, with the greatest possible promptitude.

         2. The color-company will generally be designated as the directing company. That, as
soon as formed, will be placed on the direction the colonel may have determined for the line of
battle. The other battalion companies will form on it, to the right and left, on the principles of
successive formations which will be herein prescribed.

         0-3. The companies of skirmishers will be formed in rear of the battalion, and in the
position prescribed, No. 9, Title I.

         4. The color-bearer may have received the color from the hands of the colonel; but if
there be daylight, and time, the color will be produced with due solemnity.

              COMPOSITION AND MARCH OF THE COLOR-ESCORT.

         5. When the battalion turns out under arms and the color is wanted, a company, other
than that of the color, will be put in march to receive and escort it.

         6. The march will be in the following order, in quick time, and without music; the field
music, followed by the band; the escort in column by platoon, right in front, with arms on the
right shoulder, and the color-bearer between the platoons.

         7. Arrived in front of the tent or quarters of the colonel, the escort will form line, the field
music and band on the right, and arms will be brought to a shoulder.

         8. The moment the escort is in line, the color bearer, preceded by the first lieutenant, and
followed by a sergeant of the escort, will go to receive the color.

         9. When the color-bearer shall come out, followed by the lieutenant and sergeant, he will
halt before the entrance; the escort will present arms, and the field music will sound to the color.

         10. After some twenty seconds, the captain will cause the sound to cease, arms to be
shouldered, and then break by platoon into column; the color-bearer will place himself between
the platoons, and the lieutenant and sergeant will resume their posts.

         11. The escort will march back to the battalion to the sound of music in quick time, and
in the same order as above, the guide on the right. The march will be so conducted that when the
escort arrives at one hundred and fifty paces in front of the right of the battalion, the direction of
the march will be parallel to its front, and when the color arrives nearly opposite its place in line,
the column will change direction to the left, and the right guide will direct himself on the centre
of the battalion.
ESCORT OF COLOR.  3

                                 HONORS PAID TO THE COLOR.

         12. Arrived at the distance of twenty paces from the battalion, the escort will halt, and the
music cease; the colonel will place himself six paces before the centre of the battalion, the color-
bearer will approach the colonel, by the front, in quick time; when at the distance of ten paces, he
will halt: the colonel will cause arms to be presented, and to the color to be sounded, which
being executed, the color-bearer will take his place in the front rank of the color-guard, and the
battalion, by command, shoulder arms.

         13. The escort, field music, and band, will return in quick time to their several places in
line of battle, marching by the rear of the battalion.

         14. The color will be escorted back to the colonel's tent or quarters, by the color-
company, for which purpose the captain of that company, on an intimation from the colonel, will
march his company six paces to the front, and wheel it by platoon to the right. The color-bearer
will take his place between the platoons.

         15. The escort will be marched parallel to the battalion, and at six paces from the line, the
guide right, arms shouldered, the music playing, and in the order prescribed No. 6. The colonel
will cause the battalion to present arms when the escort commences its march, and when it
arrives opposite the right flank of the battalion he will cause arms to be shouldered.

         16. As soon as the color-bearer has passed the right flank of the battalion, the escort will
be directed to the place of deposit for the color, and in the same order as above.

         17. Arrived in front of the tent or quarters, the escort will be halted, and wheeled into
line, the field music and band on the right. The moment the escort is in line, the first lieutenant
and a sergeant, designated for the purpose, will take a position faced to the front, six paces in
advance of the centre of the escort, the lieutenant on the right, and at a distance of three paces
from the sergeant, and the color-bearer will take his place between them, and abreast of the
centre of the company, facing in the same direction. The music will then sound to the color, and
arms presented. After about twenty seconds the music will cease, arms will be shouldered, the
first lieutenant, color-bearer, and sergeant, will face to the right, and marching in this order will
conduct the color to its place of deposit.

         18. When the color-bearer and sergeant shall have resumed their proper places in the
ranks, the escort will be wheeled by platoon to the right, and marched to the parade ground in the
order prescribed No. 6.

             General Rules and Division of the School of the Battalion.

         19. This school has for its object the instruction of battalions singly, and thus to prepare
them for manoe uvres in line. The harmony so indispensable in the movements of many
battalions can only be attained by the use of the same commands, the same principles, and the
same means of execution. Hence, all colonels and actual commanders of battalions will conform
themselves, without addition or curtailment, to what will herein be prescribed.

         20. When a battalion instructed in this drill shall manoe uvre in a brigade, the colonel will
regulate its movements, as prescribed in the third volume of these Tactics.

         21. The school of the battalion will be divided into five parts.
         22. The first will comprehend opening and closing ranks, and the execution of the
different fires.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  4

         23. The second, the different modes of passing from the order in battle, to the order in
column.

         24. The third, the march in column, and the other movements incident thereto.
         25. The fourth, the different modes of passing from the order in column to the order in
battle.
         26. The fifth will comprehend the march in line of battle, in advance and in retreat; the
passage of defiles in retreat; the march by the flank; the formation by file into line of battle; the
change of front; the column doubled on the centre; dispositions against cavalry; the rally, and
rules for manoeuvring by the rear rank.

                                                PART FIRST.

      OPENING AND CLOSING RANKS, AND THE EXECUTION OF THE
                                           DIFFERENT FIRES.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

                                     To open and to close ranks.

         27. The colonel, wishing the ranks to be opened, will command:

                                         1. Prepare to open ranks.

         28. At this command, the lieutenant colonel and major will place themselves on the right
of the battalion, the first on the flank of the file closers, and the second four paces from the front
rank of the battalion.

         29. These dispositions being made, the colonel will command:

                                2. To the rear, open order. 3. MARCH.

         30. At the second command, the covering sergeants, and the sergeant on the left of the
battalion, will place themselves four paces in rear of the front rank, and opposite their places in
line of battle, in order to mark the new alignment of the rear rank; they will be aligned by the
major on the left sergeant of the battalion, who will be careful to place himself exactly four paces
in rear of the front rank, and to hold his piece between the eyes, erect and inverted, the better to
indicate to the major the direction to be given to the covering sergeants.

         31. At the command march, the rear rank and the file closers will step to the rear without
counting steps; the men will pass a little in rear of the line traced for this rank, halt, and dress
forward on the covering sergeants, who will align correctly the me n of their respective
companies.

         32. The file closers will fall back and preserve the distance of two paces from the rear
rank, glancing eyes to the right; the lieutenant colonel will, from the right, align them on the file
closer of the left, who, having placed himself accurately two paces from the rear rank, will invert
his piece, and hold it up erect between his eyes, the better to be seen by the lieutenant colonel.

         33. The colonel, seeing the ranks aligned, will command:
                 SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.                           5

                 4. FRONT.

At this command, the lieutenant colonel, major, and the left sergeant, will retake their places in
line of battle.

         34. The colonel will cause the ranks to be closed by the commands prescribed for the
instructor in the S. C., No. 28.

                                                 ARTICLE II.

                 Manual of arms.

         35. The ranks being closed, the colonel will cause the following times and pauses to be
executed:

Present arms.                                       Shoulder arms.
Order arms.                                         Shoulder arms.
Support arms.                                       Shoulder arms.
Fix bayonet.                                        Shoulder arms.
Charge bayonet.                                     Shoulder arms.
Unfix bayonet.                                      Shoulder arms.

         0-36. The companies of skirmishers will not generally execute the manual of arms or
open ranks with the battalion companies, but for purposes of instruction in those movements, the
colonel will sometimes cause them to take post on the right of the battalion. The junior major
will in this case, place himself twelve paces in rear of the file closers, and opposite the centre of
the companies of skirmishers.

                                                ARTICLE III.

                 Loading at will, and the firings.

         37. The colonel will next cause to be executed loading at will, by the commands
prescribed in the S. C., No. 45; the officers and sergeants in the ranks will half face to the right
with the men at the eighth time of loading, and will face to the front when the men next to them
come to a shoulder.

         38. The colonel will cause to be executed the fire by company, the fire by wing, the fire
by battalion, the fire by file, and the fire by rank, by the commands to be herein indicated.

         39. The fire by company and the fire by file will always be direct; the fire by battalion,
the fire by wing, and the fire by rank, may be either direct or oblique.

         40. When the fire ought to be oblique, the colonel will give, at every round, the caution
right (or left) oblique, between the commands ready and aim.

         41. The fire by company will be executed alternately by the right and left companies of
each division, as if the division were alone. The right company will fire first; the captain of the
left will not give his first command till he shall see one or two pieces at a ready in the right
company; the captain of the latter, after the first discharge, will observe the same rule in respect
to the left company; and the fire will thus be continued alternately.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  6

         42. The colonel will observe the same rule in the firing by wing.
         43. The fire by file will commence in all the companies at once, and will be executed as
has been prescribed in the S. C., No. 55 and following. The fire by rank will be executed by each
rank alternately, as has been prescribed in the S. C., No. 58 and following.
         44. The color-guard will not fire, but reserve itself for the defense of the color.

                                      THE FIRE BY COMPANY.

         45. The colonel, wishing the fire by company to be executed, will command:

                              1. Fire by company. 2. Commence firing.

         46. At the first command, the captains and covering sergeants will take the positions
indicated in the S. C., No. 49.

         47. The color and its guard will step back at the same time, so as to bring the front rank of
the guard in a line with the rear rank of the battalion. This rule is general for all the different
firings.

         48. At the second command, the odd numbered companies will commence to fire; their
captains will each give the commands prescribed in the S. C., No. 50, observing to precede the
command company by that of first, third, fifth, or seventh, according to the number of each.

         49. The captains of the even numbered companies will give, in their turn, the same
commands, observing to precede them by the number of their respective companies.

         50. In order that the odd numbered companies may not all fire at once, their captains will
observe, but only for the first discharge, to give the command fire one after another: thus, the
captain of the third company will not give the command fire until he has heard the fire of the first
company; the captain of the fifth will observe the same rule with respect to the third, and the
captain of the seventh the same rule with respect to the fifth.

         51. The colonel will cause the fire to cease by the sound to cease firing; at this sound, the
men will execute what is prescribed in the S. C., No. 63; at the sound for officers to take their
places after firing, the captains, covering sergeants, and color-guard, will promptly resume their
places in line of battle: this rule is general for all the firings.

                                          THE FIRE BY WING.

         52. When the colonel shall wish this fire to be executed, he will command:

        1. Fire by wing. 2. Right wing. 3. READY. 4. AIM. 5. FIRE. 6. LOAD.

         53. The colonel will cause the wings to fire alternately, and he will recommence the fire
by the commands, 1. Right wing; 2. AIM; 3. FIRE; 4. LOAD. 1. Left wing; 2. AIM; 3.
FIRE; 4. LOAD; in conforming to what is prescribed No. 42.

                                     THE FIRE BY BATTALION.

         54. The colonel will cause this fire to be executed by the commands last prescribed,
substituting for the first two, 1. Fire by battalion; 2. Battalion.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  7

                                           THE FIRE BY FILE.

         55. To cause this to be executed, the colonel will command:

                1. Fire by file. 2. Battalion. 3. READY. 4. Commence firing.

         56. At the fourth command, the fire will commence on the right of each company, as
prescribed in the S. C., No. 57. The colonel may, if he thinks proper, cause the fire to commence
on the right of each platoon.

                                          THE FIRE BY RANK.

         57. To cause this fire to be executed, the colonel will command:

1. Fire by rank. 2. Battalion. 3. READY. 4. Rear rank. 5. AIM. 6. FIRE. 7. LOAD.

         58. This fire will be executed as has been explained in the S. C., No. 59, in following the
progression prescribed for the two ranks which should fire alternately.

                                  TO FIRE BY THE REAR RANK.

         59. When the colonel shall wish the battalion to fire to the rear, he will command:

                   1. Face by the rear rank. 2. Battalion. 3. About--FACE.

         60. At the first command, the captains, covering sergeants, and file closers will execute
what has been prescribed in the S. C., No. 69; the color-bearer will pass into the rear rank, and,
for this purpose, the corporal of his file will step before the corporal next on his right to let the
color-bearer pass, and will then take his place in the front rank; the lieutenant colonel, adjutant,
major, sergeant major, and the music will place themselves before the front rank, and face to the
rear, each opposite his place in the line of battle ­ the first two passing around the right, and the
others around the left, of the battalion.

         0-61. At the same command, the first company of skirmishers will face to the right, and
the second to the left; they will be marched by their captains around the right and left flanks of
the battalion respectively, and faced to the rear opposite their places in line of battle, the right of
each company toward the proper left of the battalion.

         62. At the third command, the battalion will face about; the captains and covering
sergeants observing what is prescribed in the S. C., No. 70.

         63. The battalion facing thus by the rear rank, the colonel will cause it to execute the
different fires by the same commands as if it were faced by the front rank.

         64. The right and left wings will retain the same designations, although faced about; the
companies also will preserve their former designations, as first, second, third, &c.

         65. The fire by file will commence on the left of each company, now become the right.
         66. The fire by rank will commence by the front rank, now become the rear rank. This
rank will preserve its denomination.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  8

         67. The captains, covering sergeants, and color-guard will, at the first command given by
the colonel, take the places prescribed for them in the fires, with the front rank leading.

         68. The colonel, after firing to the rear, wishing to face the battalion to its proper front,
will command:

                   1. Face by the front rank. 2. Battalion. 3. About--FACE.

         69. At these commands, the battalion will return to its proper front by the means
prescribed Nos. 60, 61, and 62.

         70. The fire by file being that most used in war, the colonel will give it the preference in
the preparatory exercises, in order that the battalion may be brought to execute it with the
greatest possible regularity.

         0-71. The companies of skirmishers will not fire when the line fires, except behind a
breastwork, or other defensive mask, when they may be brought into line for that purpose.

         72. When the colonel may wish to give some relaxation to the battalion, without breaking
the ranks, he will execute what has been prescribed in the S. C., Nos. 37 and 38 or Nos. 39 and
40.

         73. When the colonel shall wish to cause arms to be stacked, he will bring the battalion to
ordered arms, and then command:

                          1. Stack--ARMS. 2. Break ranks. 3. MARCH.

         74. The colonel wishing the men to return to the ranks, will cause attention to be
sounded, at which the battalion will reform behind the stacks of arms. The sound being finished,
the colonel, after causing the stacks to be broken, will command:

                                                    Battalion.

         75. At this command, the men will fix their attention, and remain immovable.
         0-76. The companies of skirmishers will perform the movements indicated Nos. 72, 73,
and 74, at the command of the colonel, and at the same time with the battalion companies.

                                              PART SECOND.

   DIFFERENT MODES OF PASSING FROM THE ORDER IN BATTLE TO
                                      THE ORDER IN COLUMN.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

                        To break to the right or the left into column.

         77. Lines of battle will habitually break into column by company; they may also break by
division or by platoon.

         78. It is here supposed that the colonel wishes to break by company to the right; he will
command:
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  9
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  10

           1. By company, right wheel. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         79. At the first command, each captain will place himself rapidly before the centre of his
company, and caution it that it has to wheel to the right; each covering sergeant will replace his
captain in the front rank.'

         0-80. At the same command, each chief of platoon of the companies of skirmishers, will
place himself rapidly before the centre of his platoon, as prescribed in the S. C., No. 177, and
caution it that it has to wheel to the right.

         81. At the command march, each company will break to the right, according to the
principles prescribed in the S. C., No. 178; each captain will conform himself to what is
prescribed for the chiefs of platoon; the left guide, as soon as he can pass, will place himself on
the left of the front rank to conduct the marching flank, and when he shall have approached near
to the perpendicular, the captain will command: 1. Such company. 2. HALT.

         82. At the second command, which will be given at the instant the left guide shall be at
the distance of three paces from the perpendicular, the company will halt; the guide will advance
and place his left arm lightly against the breast of the captain, who will establish him on the
alignment of the man who has faced to the right; the covering sergeant will place himself
correctly on the alignment on the right of that man; which being executed, the captain will align
his company by the left, command FRONT, and place himself two paces before its centre.

         83. The captains having commanded FRONT, the guides, although some of them may
not be in the direction of the preceding guides, will stand fast, in order that the error of a
company that has wheeled too much or too little may not be propagated; the guides not in the
direction will readily come into it when the column is put in march.

         0-84. At the command march, the platoons of the companies of skirmishers will be
wheeled as prescribed in the S. C., No. 178; they will be halted and dressed in such manner, that
the first platoon of each of the companies shall be on a line with the first and last battalion
companies respectively.

         85. A battalion in line of battle will break into column by company to the left, according
to the same principles, and by inverse means; the covering sergeant of each company will
conduct the marching flank, and the left guide will place himself on the left of the front rank at
the moment the company halts.

         0-86. The companies of skirmishers will break by platoon to the left, according to the
same principles by which they broke to the right, but by inverse means. In this case, the second
platoon of these companies will be on a line with the first and last battalion companies
respectively.

         87. When the battalion breaks by division, the indication division will be substituted in
the commands for that of company; the chief of each division (the senior captain) will conform
himself to what is prescribed for the chief of company, and will place himself two paces before
the centre of his division; the junior captain, if not already there, will place himself in the interval
between the two companies in the front rank, and be covered by the covering sergeant of the left
company in the rear rank. The right guide of the right company will be the right guide, and the
left guide of the left company the left guide, of the division.

         88. When the battalion shall break by platoon to the right or to the left, each first
lieutenant will pass around the left of his company to place himself in front of the second
platoon, and, for this purpose, each covering sergeant, except the one of the right company, will
step, for the moment, in rear of the right file of his company.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  11

         89. When the battalion breaks by division to the right, and there is an odd company, the
captain of this company (the left), after wheeling into column, will cause it to oblique to the left,
halt it at company distance from the preceding division, place his left guide on the direction of
the column, and then align his company by the left. When the line breaks by division to the left,
the odd company will be in front; its captain, having wheeled it into column, will cause it to
oblique to the right, halt it at division distance from the division next in the rear, place his right
guide on the direction of the other guides, and align the company by the right.

         0-90. When the battalion breaks, either by division or platoon, the first or second platoon
of each of the company of skirmishers, will be established on the prolongation of the first and
last division, or platoon, respectively.

         0-91. When there is an odd company, and the battalion breaks by division to the right, or
left, the first or second platoon of the second company of skirmishers, will always be held
abreast with that company, but otherwise the position of this company of skirmishers will not be
changed.

         0-92. Whenever there is but one company of skirmishers present with the battalion, and
it is divided into platoons, and posted, as prescribed No. 10, Title I.: in all the cases where the
battalion is broken to the right or left, either by platoon, company, or division, the first platoon of
skirmishers will always be held abreast of the first, and the second platoon abreast of the last
battalion subdivision.

         93. The battalion being in column, the lieutenant colonel and major will place themselves
on the directing flank, the first abreast with the leading subdivision, and the other abreast with
the last, and both six paces from the flank. The adjutant will be near the lieutenant colonel, and
the sergeant major near the major.

         0-94. When the companies of skirmishers are with the battalion, when in column, the
junior major will habitually occupy a position on the reverse flank, abreast with the color
company, and on a line passing through the centre of the platoons of these companies. In case
the presence of the enemy, or other cause requires that the companies of skirmishers, or any
portion of them, should be deployed on either the front, flanks, or rear of the column, the colonel
will indicate to the junior major the number of men to be deployed, the position they are to
occupy, and the duties they will be required to perform; the junior major, after communicating
these instructions to the chiefs of the companies of skirmishers, will take such position as best to
supervise the movements.

         0-95. When one or more platoons of the companies of skirmishers are deployed to cover
the battalion, when in open column, and the colonel desires their recall, he will cause it to be
indicated to the commandant of the skirmishers, who will either direct the assemble on the
battalion to be sounded, or will command, assemble on the battalion. At this signal or
command, the skirmishers will assemble on their respective reserves, as prescribed No. 165,
instructions for skirmishers, and then proceed to take their appropriate places as indicated Nos.
84 and 86.

         96. The colonel will have no fixed place as the instructor of his battalion; but in columns
composed of many battalions, he will place himself habitually on the directing flank fifteen or
twenty paces from the guides, and abreast with the centre of his battalion.

         97. When the colonel shall wish to move the column forward without halting it, he will
caution the battalion to that effect, and command:

           1. By company, right wheel. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  12

         98. At the first command, the captains of companies will execute what is prescribed for
breaking into column from a halt.

         99. At the second command, they will remain in front of their companies to superintend
the movement; the companies will wheel to the right on fixed pivots as indicated in the S. C.,
No. 190; the left guides will conform to what is prescribed above; when they shall arrive near the
perpendicular, the colonel will command:

                                3. Forward. 4. MARCH. 5. Guide left.

         100. At the third command, each covering sergeant will place himself by the right side of
the man on the right of the front rank of his company. At the fourth command, which will be
given at the instant the wheel is completed, the companies will cease to wheel, and march
straight forward. At the fifth, the men will take the touch of elbows to the left. The leading
guide will march in the direction indicated to him by the lieutenant colonel. The guides will
immediately conform themselves to the principles of the march in column, S. C., No. 205 and
following.

         0-101. At the first command, the chiefs of the companies of skirmishers, will execute
what is prescribed for breaking from a halt; at the second command, they will execute what is
prescribed in the S. C., No. 190, with this exception, on arriving near the perpendicular, each
captain will command:

                                        1. Mark time. 2. MARCH.

         0-102. At the fourth command by the colonel, the platoons will execute what is
prescribed in the S. C., No. 191. At the fifth command, they will take the guide to the left, and
the guides of the first platoons will march on the prolongation of the first and last battalion
companies, respectively, and at a distance from the right guides of the column of about thirty-
three paces, less the front of the platoon.

         103. If the battalion be marching in line of battle, the colonel will cause it to wheel to the
right or left, by the same commands and the same means; but he should previously caution the
battalion that it is to continue the march.

         104. A battalion in line of battle will break into column by company to the left, according
to the same principles and by inverse means; the covering sergeant of each company will
conduct the marching flank, and the left guides will place themselves on the left of their
respective companies at the command forward.

         0-105. The companies of skirmishers will break by platoon to the left, according to the
same principles by which they broke to the right, but by inverse means; the second platoon
marching on the prolongation of the first and last battalion companies.

         106. When a battalion has to prolong itself in column towards the right or left, or has to
direct its march in column perpendicularly or diagonally in front, or in rear of either flank, the
colonel will cause it to break by company to the right or left, as has just been prescribed; but
when the line breaks to the right, in order to march towards the left, or the reverse, the colonel
will command: Break to the right to march to the left, or break to the left to march to the right,
before giving the command, by company, right (or left) wheel. As soon as the battalion is
broken, the lieutenant colonel will place a marker abreast with the right guide of the leading
company. The instant the column is put in motion, this company will wheel to the left (or right),
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  13

march ten paces to the front without changing the guide, and wheel again to the left (or right).
The second wheel being completed, the captain will immediately command guide left (or right).
The guide of this company will march in a direction parallel to the guides of the column. The
lieutenant colonel will be careful to place a second marker at the point where the first company is
to change direction the second time.

         0-107. In executing the movements above indicated, the platoon columns of the
companies of skirmishers will maintain their proper relative positions to the battalion column.

                                                 ARTICLE II.

  To break to the rear, by the right or left, into column, and to advance or
                            retire by the right or left of companies.

         108. When the colonel shall wish to cause the battalion to break to the rear, by the right,
into column by company, he will command:

   1. By the right of companies to the rear into column. 2. Battalion right--FACE.
                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         109. At the first command, each captain will place himself before the centre of his
company, and caution it to face to the right; the covering sergeants will step into the front rank.

         0-110. At the same command, each chief of platoon of the companies of skirmishers, will
place himself before the centre of his platoon, and caution it to face to the right.

         111. At the second command, the battalion will face to the right; each captain will hasten
to the right of his company, and break two files to the rear; the first file will break the whole
depth of the two ranks; the second file less; which being executed, the captain will place himself
so that his breast may touch lightly the left arm of the front rank man of the last file in the
company next on the right of his own. The captain of the right company will place himself as if
there were a company on his right, and will align himself on the other captains. The covering
sergeant of each company will break to the rear with the right files, and place himself before the
front rank of the first file, to conduct him. The guides, who in similar movements place
themselves in front of the leading front-rank me n to conduct them, will face toward those points
on which it is intended the subdivision shall march. This rule is general.

         112. At the command march, the first file of each company will wheel to the right; the
covering sergeant, placed before this file, will conduct it perpendicularly to the rear. The other
files will come successively to wheel on the same spot. The captains will stand fast, see their
companies file past, and at the instant the last file shall have wheeled, each captain will
command:

                  1. Such company. 2. HALT. 3. FRONT. 4. Left--DRESS.

         113. At the instant the company faces to the front, its left guide will place himself so that
his left arm may touch lightly the breast of his captain.

         114. At the fourth command, the company will align itself on its left guide, the captain so
directing it that the new alignment may be perpendicular to that which the company had
occupied in line of battle, and the better to judge this, he will step back two paces from the flank.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  14
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  15

         115. The company being aligned, the captain will command: FRONT, and take his place
before its centre.

         0-116. At the second command, the companies of skirmishers will face to the right, each
chief of platoon will hasten to the right of his platoon, break three files to the rear, as indicated
No. 111, and place himself by the side of his guide, to conduct him, the guide of each second
platoon will place himself in front of the leading front-rank man of his platoon.

         0-117. At the command march, each platoon will be conducted perpendicularly to the
rear by its chief, who having marched a distance equal to the front of his platoon, will halt in his
own person, let his platoon file past him, and when the left file shall have passed, the platoon
will be halted, faced to the front, and dressed, as prescribed No. 84: the guides will move rapidly
to the left of the platoons at the command halt, by their chiefs.

         118. The battalion marching in line of battle, when the colonel shall wish to break into
column by company, to the rear, by the right, he will command:

1. By the right of companies to the rear into column. 2. Battalion, by the right flank.
                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         119. At the first command, each captain will step briskly in front of the centre of his
company, and caution it to face by the right flank.

         0-120. At the same command, each chief of platoon of the companies of skirmishers, will
step in front of the centre of his platoon, and caution it to face by the right flank.

         121. At the command march, the battalion will face to the right; each captain will move
rapidly to the right of his company and cause it to break to the right; the first file of each
company will wheel to the right, and the covering sergeant placed in front of this file will
conduct it perpendicularly to the rear; the other files will wheel successively at the same place as
the first. The captains will see their companies file past them; when the last files have wheeled,
the colonel will command:

                     4. Battalion, by the left flank--MARCH. 5. Guide left.

         0-122. At the third command by the colonel, the chief of each platoon of the companies
of skirmishers, will cause the right of his platoon to break as indicated No. 116, and be
conducted to the rear as prescribed No. 117.

         123. At the fourth command by the colonel, the battalion companies will face to the left,
and march in column in the new direction. The captains will place themselves in front of the
centres of their respective companies. At the fifth command, the guides will conform to the
principles of the march in column; the leading one will move in the direction indicated to him by
the lieutenant-colonel. The men will take the touch of elbows to the left.

         0-124. At the fourth command, the platoons of the companies of skirmishers will face by
the left flank, and at the fifth, will take their guide to the left flank.

         125. To break to the rear by the left, the colonel will give the same commands as in the
case of breaking to the rear by the right, substituting the indication left, for that of right.

         126. The movement will be executed according to the same principles. Each captain will
hasten to the left of his company, cause the first two files to break to the rear, and then place his
breast against the right file of the company next on the left of his own, in the manner prescribed
above.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  16

         127. As soon as the two files break to the rear, the left guide of each company will place
himself before the front rank man of the headmost file, to conduct him.

         128. The instant the companies face to the front, the right guide of each will place himself
so that his right arm may lightly touch the breast of his captain.

         0-129. The companies of skirmishers will break to the rear by the left, according to the
principles prescribed Nos. 110, 116, and 117. In this case, the second platoon of each company
will be assigned on the first and last battalion companies respectively.

         130. The battalion may be broken by division to the rear, by the right or left, in like
manner; in this case, the indication divisions will be substituted, in the first command, for that of
companies; the chiefs of division will conform themselves to what is prescribed for the chiefs of
company. The junior captain in each division will place himself, when the division faces to a
flank, by the side of the covering sergeant of the left company, who steps into the front rank.

         0-131. When the battalion breaks to the rear by division, the chiefs of platoon of the
companies of skirmishers will lead off their platoons a distance equal to once and a half a
company front, before halting in their own person, to let them file past as indicated No. 117.

         132. If there be an odd number of companies, and the battalion breaks by division to the
rear, whether by the right or left, the captain of the left company will conform to what is
prescribed No. 89.

         0-133. In the case above indicated, the platoons of the companies of skirmishers will be
concluded, so as to conform to the principles prescribed in No. 91.

         134. This manner of breaking into column, being at once the most prompt and regular,
will be preferred on actual service, unless there be some particular reason for breaking to the
front.

         135. If the battalion be in line and at a halt, and the colonel should wish to advance or
retire by the right of companies, he will command:

   1. By the right of companies to the front (or rear). 2. Battalion, right--FACE. 3.
          MARCH (or double quick--MARCH). 4. Guide right (left) or (centre).

         136. At the first command, each captain will move rapidly two paces in front of the
centre of his company, and caution it to face to the right; the covering sergeants will replace the
captains in the front rank.

         0-137. At the same command, each chief of platoon of the companies of skirmishers, will
move rapidly in front of the centre of his platoon, and caution it to face to the right.

         138. At the second command, the battalion will face to the right, and each captain moving
quickly to the right of his company will cause files to break to the front, according to the
principles indicated No. 111.

         0-139. At the same command, the companies of skirmishers will face to the right, and
each chief of platoon moving quickly to its right, will cause files to break to the front, and will
place himself according to the principles indicated No. 116.

         140. At the command march, each captain placing himself on the left of his leading guide
will conduct his company perpendicularly to the original line. At the fourth command, the guide
of each company will dress to the right, left, or centre, according to the indication given, taking
care to preserve accurately his distance.

         0-141. At the command march, each chief of platoon of the companies of skirmishers,
will halt in his own person, and let his platoon file past him, and when the left file has arrived
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  17

abreast with him each captain will command: 1. Mark time. 2. MARCH. At the second
command, given to instant the left files are abreast with their chiefs, the platoons will mark time,
each captain will then command: 1. Forward. 2. MARCH. At the first command, each chief
of platoon will place himself by the side of his guide, at the command march, given at the instant
the battalion companies have prolonged themselves their entire length in the new direction, the
platoons will step off, the first platoon of the companies, on the prolongation of the first and last
battalion companies respectively.

         0-142. When the battalion retires by the right of companies, the first and last battalion
companies will march on the prolongation of the first platoons of the companies of skirmishers,
respectively. The lieutenant-colonel will see that the guide of the platoon on the directing flank
marches in the proper direction. Should the colonel command: guide centre, the right general
guide will immediately place himself on a line with the platoon guides, and abreast with the
guide of the right centre company. He will be assured in this position by the lieutenant-colonel,
and the platoon guides of the companies of skirmishers will align themselves upon him,
preserving their proper distances; the guide of the right centre company will march in the trace of
this guide, preserving from him a distance of about thirty-three paces.

         143. If the colonel should wish to move to the front, or rear, by the left of companies, the
movement will be executed by the same means and the same commands, substituting left for
right.

         0-144. The companies of skirmishers will move to the front or rear by the left of platoons
on the same principles as by the right. In this case, each second platoon will march on the
prolongation of the first and last battalion companies respectively and conversely.

         145. If the battalion be in march, and the colonel should wish to advance or retire by the
right of companies, he will command:

  1. By the right of companies to the front (or rear). 2. Battalion, by the right flank.
         3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH). 4. Guide right (left) or (centre).

         146. Which will be executed according to the principles and means prescribed Nos. 119
and following, and 136 and following. At the first command, the color and general guides will
take their places as in column.

         0-147. When advancing or retiring by the right of companies, the platoons of the
companies of skirmishers will execute the movement according to the means and principles
prescribed Nos. 120, 122, 139, 141, and 142.

         148. If the colonel should wish to advance or retire by the left of companies, the
movement will be executed by the same means and the same commands, substituting left for
right.

         0-149. The companies of skirmishers will advance or retire by the left of platoons, on the
same principles as by the right, observing what is required No. 144.

         150. If the battalion be advancing by the right or left of companies, and the colonel
should wish to form line to the front, he will command:

1. By companies into line. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH). 3. Guide centre.

         151. At the command march, briskly repeated by the captains, each company will be
formed into line, as prescribed in the S. C., No. 155.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  18

         152. At the third command, the color and general guides will move rapidly to their places
in line, as will be hereinafter prescribed No. 480.

         0-153. The platoons of the companies of skirmishers will come into line at the same time
with the battalion companies in the manner prescribed in the S. C., Nos. 163 and 165.

         154. If the battalion be retiring by the right or left of companies, and the colonel should
wish to form line facing the enemy, he will first cause the companies to face about while
marching, and immediately form in line by the commands and means prescribed No. 150, and by
the means indicated in the S. C., No. 159. If the colonel dies not wish the battalion to advance
after facing about, he will command: right about--HALT, which will be executed according
to the principles prescribed in the S. C., Nos. 132-133.

         0-155. In the movement above indicated, the companies of skirmishers will face about,
and come into line, at the same time with the battalion companies.

 REMARKS ON THE DEPLOYMENT OF SKIRMISHERS, IN RETIRING BY
                           THE RIGHT OR LEFT OF COMPANIES.

         0-156. If, in retiring by the flanks of companies, it is not intended to open the fire of the
line on the enemy, the companies of skirmishers, or a portion of them, will generally be deployed
between the enemy and the line, for the purpose of covering the retreat.

                                                ARTICLE III.

                           To ploy the battalion into close column.

         157. This movement may be executed by company or by division, on the right or left
subdivision, or on any other subdivision, right or left in front.

         158. The examples in this school will suppose the presence of four divisions, with
directions for an odd company; but what will be prescribed for four, will serve equally for two or
three divisions.

         159. To ploy the battalion into close column by division in rear of the first, the colonel
will command:

   1. Close column by division. 2. On the first division, right in front. 3. Battalion,
                     right--FACE. 4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         160. At the second command, all the chiefs of division will place themselves before the
centres of their divisions; the chief of the first will caution it to stand fast; the chiefs of the three
others will remind them that they will have to face to the right, and the covering sergeant of the
right company of each division will replace his captain in the front rank, as soon as the latter
steps out.

         0-161. At the same command, each chief of platoon of the companies of skirmishers, will
place himself before the centre of his platoon, and caution it that it will have to face to the right.

         162. At the third command, the last three divisions will face to the right; the chief of each
division will hasten to its right, and cause files to be broken to the rear, as indicated No. 111; the
right guide will break at the same time, and place himself before the front-rank man of the first
file, to conduct him, and each chief of division will place himself by the side of this guide.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  19
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  20

         163. The moment these divisions face to the right, the junior captain in each will place
himself on the left of the covering sergeant of the left company, who will place himself in the
front rank. This rule is general for all the ployments by division.

         0-164. At the third command, the companies of skirmishers will face to the right. Each
chief of platoon will hasten to the right of his platoon; the chiefs of the second platoons will
break off files, and the guides of those platoons will place themselves as prescribed No. 116.

         165. At the command march, the chief of the first division will add, guide left; at this, its
left guide will place himself on its left, as soon as the movement of the second division may
permit, and the file closers will advance one pace upon the rear rank.

         166. All the other divisions, each conducted by its chief, will step off together, to take
their places in the column; the second will gain, in wheeling by file to the rear, the space of six
paces, which ought to separate its guide from the guide of the first division, and so direct its
march as to enter the column on a line parallel to this division; the third and fourth divisions will
direct themselves diagonally toward, but a little in rear of, the points at which they ought,
respectively, to enter the column; at six paces from the left flank of the column, the head of each
of these divisions will incline a little to the left, in order to enter the column, as has just been
prescribed for the second, taking care also to leave the distance of six paces between its guide
and the guide of the preceding division. At the moment the divisions put themselves in march to
enter the column, the file closers of each will incline to the left, so as to bring themselves to the
distance of a pace from the rear rank.

         167. Each chief of these three divisions will conduct his division till he shall be up with
the guide of the directing one; the chief will then himself halt, see his division file past, and halt
it the instant the last file shall have passed, commanding: 1. Such division; 2. HALT; 3.
FRONT; 4. Left--DRESS.

         168. At the second command, the division will halt; the left guide will place himself
promptly on the direction, six paces from the guide which precedes him, in order that, the
column being formed, the divisions may be separated the distance of four paces.

         169. At the third command, the division will face to the front; at the fourth, it will be
aligned by its chief, who will place himself two paces outside of his guide, and direct the
alignment so that his division may be parallel to that which precedes ­ which being done, he will
command, FRONT, and place himself before the centre of his division.

         170. If any division, after the command front, be not at its proper distance, and this can
only happen through the negligence of its chief, such division will remain in its place, in order
that the fault may not be propagated.

         0-171. At the command march by the colonel, each first platoon of the companies of
skirmishers will stand fast, and each second platoon, conducted by its chief, will ploy in close
order, in rear of its first; and, when its guide shall be nearly up with the guide of the first, each
captain will command: 1. Column forward; 2. Guide left; 3. MARCH (or double quick--
MARCH).

         0-172. At this the first platoon column will direct itself diagonally to the front, and
toward the points around which the platoons will have to file; its first platoon, conducted by its
chief, will take the shortest line to a point on the prolongation of the first division, and at the
distance from its right guide as prescribed No. 102; the second platoon will conform its
movements to the first. When the chiefs of the platoons have arrived at the points above
indicated, the chief, of each will halt in his own person, and let his platoon file past him; the first
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  21

platoon on the prolongation of the first division, and when the left file shall have passed, each
chief will command:

                       1. Such platoon--HALT. 2. Front. 3. Left--DRESS.

         0-173. At the same time, the second platoon column will direct itself diagonally to the
front, its first platoon conducted by its chief toward a point on the prolongation of the last
division, as it will be when it has arrived in the column, and at the distance prescribed for the
first platoon of the first platoon column; the chiefs of platoons will halt in their own persons, let
their platoons file past them, halt, and dress them, as prescribed for the first platoon column.

         174. The colonel will superintend the execution of the movements and cause the
prescribed principles to be observed.

         175. The lieutenant-colonel, placing himself in succession in rear of the left guides, will
assure them on the direction as they arrive, and then move to his place outside of the left flank of
the column, six paces from, and abreast with, the first division. In assuring the guides on the
direction, he will be a mere observer, unless one or more should fail to cover exactly the guide or
guides already established. This rule is general.

         176. The senior major will follow the movement abreast with the left of the fourth
division, and afterward take his position outside of the left flank of the column, six paces from,
and abreast with, this division. The junior major will follow the movement, and afterward take
post as indicated No. 94, observing what follows; he will take post abreast of the division next to
the last.

         177. To ploy the battalion in front of the first division, the colonel will give the same
commands, substituting the indication left for that of right in front.

         178. At the second and third commands, the chiefs of division and the junior captains will
conform themselves to what is prescribed Nos. 160, 162, 163; but the chiefs of the last three
divisions, instead of causing the first three files to break to the rear, will cause them to break to
the front.

         0-179. At the second command, each chief of platoon of the companies of skirmishers,
will place himself as indicated No. 161; each chief of platoon of the first company will caution
his platoon to face to the left, and each chief of platoon of the second company will caution his
platoon to face to the right.

         0-180. At the third command, the companies will face to the left and right respectively,
and the chiefs and guides of platoons will execute what is prescribed No. 164.

         181. At the fourth command, the chief of the first division will add: Guide right.
         182. The three other divisions will step off together to take their places in the column in
front of the directing division; each will direct itself as prescribed No. 166, and will enter in such
manner that, when halted, its guide may find himself six paces from the guide of the division
next previously established in the column.
         183. Each chief of these divisions will conduct his division, till his right guide shall be
nearly up with the guide of the directing one; he will then halt his division, and cause it to face to
the front; at the instant it halts, its right guide will face to the rear, place himself six paces from
the preceding guide, and cover him exactly ­ which being done, the chief will align his division
by the right.
         0-184. At the fourth command, the second platoon of the first, and the first platoon of the
second company of skirmishers will stand fast; the first platoon of the first company of
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  22

skirmishers will ploy in close order in the rear of its second, and the second platoon of the
second company will ploy in front of its first platoon, and when the guides of the first and second
platoons shall be nearly up with the guides of the second and first, respectively, the captain of the
first company will command: 1. Company forward. 2. Guide right. 3. MARCH (or double
quick--MARCH), and the captain of the second company will command: 1. Company
forward. 2. Guide left. 3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         0-185. At this, the platoon columns will direct themselves diagonally to the front, and
toward the points around which the platoons will have to file, each second platoon, conducted by
its chief, will take the shortest line to the point on the prolongation of the first and last division
respectively, the platoon of the first column, at the distance prescribed No. 102, and the platoon
of the second column at a distance of about thirty-three paces: the first platoons will conform to
the movements of the second, and the platoons will execute what is prescribed No. 172-173.
When halted and faced to the front the platoons will be dressed to the right.

         186. The lieutenant-colonel, placed in front of the right guide of the first division, will
assure the guides on the direction as they successively arrive, and then move outside of the right
flank of the column, to a point six paces from, and abreast with, the fourth division, now in front.

         187. The senior major will conform himself to what is prescribed No. 176, and then move
outside of the right flank of the column, six paces from, and abreast with, the first division now
in the rear. The junior major will conform to the movements of the column and then take post as
indicated No. 176.

         188. The movement being ended, the colonel will command:

                                           Guides, about--FACE.

         189. At this, the guides, who are faced to the rear, will face to the front.
         190. To ploy the battalion in rear, or in front of the fourth division, the colonel will
command:

      1. Close column by division. 2. On the fourth division left (or right) in front.
             3. Battalion left--FACE. 4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         191. These movements will be executed according to the principles of those which
precede, but by inverse means; the fourth division on which the battalion ploys will stand fast;
the instant the movement commences, its chief will command, guide right (or left).

         0-192. These movements will be executed by the companies of skirmishers, according to
the principles which have been laid down, but by inverse means.

         193. The foregoing examples embrace all the principles: thus, when the colonel shall
wish to ploy the battalion on an interior division, he will command:

1. Close column by division. 2. On such division right (or left) in front. 3. Battalion
                  inwards--FACE. 4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         194. The instant the movement commences, the chief of the directing division will
command: guide left (or right).

         195. The divisions which, in the order in battle, are to the right of the directing division,
will face to the left; those which are to the left will face to the right.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  23

         196. If the right is to be in front, the right divisions will ploy in front of the directing
division, and the left in its rear; the reverse, if the left is to be in front. And in all the foregoing
suppositions, the division or divisions contiguous to the directing one, in wheeling by file to the
front or rear, will gain the space of six paces, which ought to separate their guides from the guide
of the directing division.

         0-197. In these movements the companies of skirmishers will be governed by the
principles heretofore laid down.

         198. In all the ployments on an interior division, the lieutenant-colonel will assure the
positions of the guides in front, and the senior major those in rear of the directing division.

         199. If the battalion be in march, instead of at a halt, the movement will be executed by
combining the two gaits of quick and double quick time, and always in rear of one of the flank
divisions.

         200. The battalion being in march, to ploy it in rear of the first division, the colonel will
command:

    1. Close column by division. 2. On the first division. 3. Battalion--by the right
                          flank. 4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         201. At the second command, each chief of division will move rapidly before the centre
of his division and caution it to face to the right.

         202. The chief of the first division will caution it to continue to march to the front, and he
will command: Quick time.

         0-203. At the second command, each chief of platoon of the companies of skirmishers
will move rapidly in front of the centre of his platoon and caution it to face by the right flank, the
chief of each first platoon, will command: Quick time.

         204. At the command march, the first division will march in quick time, and its chief will
command: Guide left. At this, the left guide will move to the left flank of the division and direct
himself on the point indicated.

         205. The three other divisions will face to the right and move off in double quick time,
breaking to the right to take their places in column; each chief of division will move rapidly to
the right of his division in order to conduct it. The files will be careful to preserve their
distances, and to march with a uniform and decided step. The color-bearer and general guides
will retake their places in the ranks.

         206. The second division will immediately enter the column, marching parallel to the first
division; its chief will allow it to file past him, and when the last file is abreast of him, will
command: 1. Second division, by the left flank--MARCH. 2. Guide left, and place
himself in front of the centre of his division.

         207. At the command march, the division will face to the left; at the second command,
the left guide will march in the trace of the left guide of the first division; the men will take the
touch of elbows to the left. When the second division has closed to its proper distance, its chief
will command: Quick time--MARCH. This division will then change its step to quick time.

         208. The chiefs of the third and fourth divisions will execute their movements according
to the same principles, taking care to gain as much ground as possible toward the head of the
column.

         0-209. At the command march by the colonel, each platoon of the companies of
skirmishers, will face by the right flank, the chiefs will hasten to the right of their platoons, each
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  24

second platoon breaking to the rear, in order to take its place in the platoon column, and when
the guide is nearly up with the guide of the first platoon, the captain will command: 1. Column
guide right. 2. Double quick--MARCH.

         0-210. The platoon-columns will be conducted diagonally toward the points around
which they are to file as indicated Nos. 172, 173 and when the left file of each platoon, shall
arrive nearly up to its chief, he will command: 1. By the left flank. 2. Quick march. 3.
Guide left.

         211. If the battalion had been previously marching in line at double quick time, when the
fourth division shall have gained its distance, the colonel (should he wish to resume that gait)
will command: Double quick--MARCH.

         212. In this movement, the lieutenant-colonel will move rapidly to the side of the leading
guide, give him a point of direction, and then follow the movements of the first division. The
senior major will follow the movement abreast with the left of the fourth division.

           REMARKS ON PLOYING THE BATTALION INTO COLUMN.

         213. The battalion may be ployed into column at full, or half distance, on the same
principles, and by the same commands, substituting for the first command: Column at full (or
half) distance by division. The battalion will not be ployed at full distance unless with a view
to the route step.

         214. In the ployments and movements in column, when the subdivisions execute the
movements successively, such as ­ to take or close distances; to change direction by the flank of
subdivisions, each chief of subdivision will cause his men to support arms after having aligned it
and commanded FRONT.

         0-215. When the battalion is ployed into column, either at half distance or closed in mass,
each company of skirmishers will ploy into columns closed in mass.

                                                PART THIRD.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

                              To march in column at full distance.

         216. When the colonel shall wish to put the column in march, he will indicate to the
leading guide two distinct objects in front, on the line which the guide ought to follow. This
guide will immediately put his shoulders in a square with that line, take the more distant object
as the point of direction, and the nearer one as the intermediate point.

         217. If only a single prominent object present itself in the direction the guide has to
follow, he will face to it as before, and immediately endeavor to catch on the ground some
intermediate point, by which to give steadiness to his march on the point of direction.

         218. There being no prominent object to serve as the point of direction, the colonel will
dispatch the lieutenant-colonel or adjutant to place himself forty paces in advance, facing the
column, and by a sign of the sword establish him on the direction he may wish to give to the
leading guide; that officer being thus placed, this guide will take him as the point of direction,
conforming himself to what is prescribed in the S. C., No. 87.

         219. These dispositions being made, the colonel will command:
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  25
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  26

1. Column forward. 2. Guide left (or right). 3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         220. At the command march, briskly repeated by the chiefs of subdivision, and the chiefs
of platoon of the companies of skirmishers, the column will put itself in march, conforming to
what is prescribed in the S. C., No. 205 and following.

         221. The leading guide may always maintain himself correctly on the direction by
keeping steadily in view the two points indicated to him, or chosen by himself; if these points
have a certain elevation, he may be assured he is on the true direction, when the nearer masks the
more distant point.

         222. The following guides will preserve with exactness both step and distance; each will
march in the trace of the guide who immediately precedes him, without occupying himself with
the general direction.

         223. The lieutenant-colonel will hold himself, habitually, abreast with the leading guide,
to see that he does not deviate from the direction, and will observe, also, that the next guide
marches exactly in the trace of the first.

         224. The senior major will generally be abreast with the last subdivision; he will see that
each guide marches exactly in the trace of the one immediately preceding; if either deviate from
the direction, the senior major will promptly rectify the error, and prevent its being propagated;
but he need not interfere, in this way, unless the deviation has become sensible, or material. The
junior major will take part as indicated No. 94.

         225. The column being in march, the colonel may cause the about to be executed while
marching; to this effect, he will command:

                     1. Battalion, right about. 2. MARCH. 3. Guide right.

         226. At the second command, the companies will face to the right about, and the column
will then march forward in an opposite direction; the chiefs of subdivision will remain behind the
front rank, the file closers in front of the rear rank, and the guides will place themselves in the
rear rank, now in front. The second platoons of the platoon columns will march abreast with the
first and last battalion companies respectively. The lieutenant-colonel will remain abreast of the
first division, now in the rear; the senior major will give a point of direction to the leading guide,
and march abreast of him.

         227. The colonel will hold himself habitually on the directing flank; he will look to the
step and to the distances, and see that all the principles prescribed for the march in column,
school of the company, are observed.

        MANNER OF PROLONGING A LINE OF BATTLE BY MARKERS.

         228. When a column prolongs itself on the line of battle, it being all-important that the
guides march correctly on that line, it becomes necessary that colonels, lieutenant-colonels, and
senior majors, whose duty it is to maintain the true direction, should be able to see, as far as
practicable, the two objects, on which the march of the guides ought to be directed;
consequently, when no prominent objects present themselves in the desired direction, the chief of
the column will supply the want of them in advance by aids-de-camp, or other mounted officers,
and in such number as may be necessary.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  27

         229. Three such officers may prolong a line as far as may be desired in the following
manner: they will place themselves in advance on the line of battle, the first at the point where
the head of the column ought to enter; the second, three or four hundred paces behind the first;
and the third, a like distance behind the second. The first of these officers will remain in position
till the leading guide shall have entered on the line of battle, and then, at a gallop, place himself
at a convenient distance behind the third. The second will do the like in respect to the first, when
the head of the column shall be near him, and so on in continuation. These officers, without
dismounting, will face to the column, and cover each other accurately. It will be on them that the
guides will steadily direct their march, and it will be so much the more easy for the latter to
maintain themselves on the direction, as they will always be able to see the mounted officers
over the heads of the preceding guides; thus the deviation from the direction, by one or more
guides, need not mislead those who follow.

         230. A single mounted officer may suffice to assure the direction of a column, when the
point of direction toward which it marches is very distinct. In this case, that officer will place
himself on the line of battle within that point, and beyond the one at which the head of the
column will halt, and remain in position till the column halts; serving thus as the intermediate
point for giving steadiness to the march of the guides.

         231. For a column of one or two battalions, markers on foot will suffice to indicate the
line to be followed by the general guides.

                         REMARKS ON THE MARCH IN COLUMN.

         232. The subdivisions of a column will not maintain the full distance, for any
considerable length of time, unless in the route step, or upon reviews or other movements of
ceremony. In presence of the enemy, the column will habitually be either at half distance or
closed in mass.

         233. Although the uncadenced step be that of columns in route marches, and also that
which ought to be habitually employed in the Evolutions of a Brigade, when not in the
immediate presence of the enemy, and when the difficulty of the road, heat, or dust, should
render it expedient, nevertheless, as it is of paramount importance to confirm soldiers in the
measure and the movement of the cadenced pace, the route step will be but little practiced in the
exercises by battalion, except in going to, and returning from, the ground of instruction, and for
teaching the mechanism and movements of columns in route.

         234. It is highly essential to the regularity of the march in column that each guide follow
exactly in the trace of the one immediately preceding, without occupying his attention with the
general direction of the guides. If this principle be steadily observed, the guides will find
themselves aligned, provided that the leading one march exactly in the direction indicated to
him; and even should obstacles in his way force him into a momentary deviation, the direction of
the column would not necessarily be changed; whereas, if the following guides endeavor to
conform themselves at once to all the movements of the leading one, in order to cover him in
file, such endeavors would necessarily cause corresponding fluctuations in the column, from
right to left, and from left to right, and render the preservation of distances extremely difficult.

         235. As a consequence of the principle, that each guide shall exactly follow in the trace of
the one who immediately precedes, if, pending the march of the column, the colonel shall give a
new point of direction, too near to the first to require a formal change of direction, the leading
guide, advancing the one or other shoulder, will immediately direct himself on this point; the
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  28
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  29

other guides will only conform themselves to this movement as each arrives at the point at which
the first had executed it. Each subdivision will conform itself to the movement of its guide, the
men insensibly lengthening or shortening the step, and advancing or refusing (throwing back) the
shoulder opposite to the guide, but without losing the touch of the elbow toward his side.

         236. The column, at full distance, by company, being in march, the colonel will cause it
to diminish front by platoon, from front to rear, at once, and to increase front by platoon in like
manner, which movements will be commanded and executed as prescribed in the S. C., Nos. 287
and 278 and following, changing the command form company to form companies. So may he
increase and diminish, or diminish and increase front, according to the same principles and at
once, by company, changing the command form companies to form divisions, and the command
break into platoons, to break into companies. In this case, the companies and divisions will
execute what is prescribed for platoons and companies respectively.

         237. The column being at a halt, if the colonel should wish to march it to the rear, and the
distance to be gained be so inconsiderable as to render a countermarch a disproportionate loss of
time, he will cause the column to face about, and then put it in march by the commands
prescribed No. 219; the chiefs of the subdivisions will remain behind the front rank, the file
closers before the rear rank, and the guides will step into the rear rank, now in front. In a
column, by division, the junior captains, in the intervals between companies, will replace their
covering sergeants in the rear rank) and these sergeants will step into the line of file closers in
front of their intervals.

         0-238. In the different movements of the column, the companies of skirmishers, if
present, will preserve their relative positions thereto; the platoon guides will always be on the
side of the column.

                                                 ARTICLE II.

                                             Column in route.

         239. A column in route, ought never to have, a depth greater than about the front it had
occupied in the line of battle, less the front of a subdivision.

         240. The observance of this principle requires particular rule; as a column in route may
have hourly to pass narrow ways, bridges, or other defiles, rendering it necessary to diminish the
front of subdivisions, it becomes important to give rules and means by which the column may,
for any length of march, preserve the ease of the route step without elongation from front to rear.

         241. A column in route will be habitually formed by company.
         242. When a column in route shall arrive at a pass too narrow to receive the front of a
company, the column will diminish front by platoon before entering. This movement will be
executed successively, or by all the companies at once.
         243. If, however, the defile be very short, and it may be passed by the diminution of a
few files, it will be preferable to break to the rear the limited number of files.
         244. The column being by platoon, and the want of space rendering a further diminution
of front necessary, it will be diminished by section, if the platoons be of twelve or more files.
         245. The column being by section, will continue to march by that front as long as the
defile may permit.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  30

         246. If the platoons have less than twelve files, one or two files will be broken to the rear,
according to the narrowing of the defile, and the route step continued as long as six files can
march abreast.

         247. What has just been explained for breaking files to the rear in a column by platoon, is
equally applicable to a column by section.

         248. If the defile be too narrow to permit six men to march abreast, the subdivisions will
be marched successively by the flank, conforming to what is prescribed in the S. C., Nos. 319
and 320.

         249. The battalion marching by the flank, will be formed into column, by section, by
platoon, or by company, as soon as the breadth of the way may permit; the several movements
which these formations include will be executed by the commands of the captains, as their
companies successively clear the defile, observing the following rules.

         250. As soon as the way is sufficiently broad to contain six men abreast, the captain will
command:

                        1. By section (or by platoon) into line. 2. MARCH.

         251. At the command march, the subdivisions indicated will form themselves into line;
the files which have not been able to enter, will follow (by the flank) the last four files of their
subdivision which have entered into line.

         252. The column marching in this order, the files in rear will be caused to enter into line
as the increased breadth of the way may permit.

         253. The column marching by section or by platoon, platoons or companies will be
formed as soon as the breadth of the way may permit.

         254. The leading subdivision will follow the windings of the pass or defile; the following
subdivisions will not occupy themselves with the direction, but all, in succession, pass over the
trace of the subdivisions which precede them respectively. The men will not seek to avoid the
bad parts of the way, but pass, as far as practicable, each in the direction of his file.

         255. Changes of direction will always be made without command; if the change be
important, a caution merely from the respective chiefs to their subdivisions will suffice, and the
rear rank, as well as the files broken to the rear, will execute successively the movement where
the front rank had executed it.

         256. The colonel will hold himself at the head of the battalion; he will regulate the step of
the leading subdivision, and indicate to its chief the instant for executing the various movements
which the nature of the route may render necessary.

         257. If the column be composed of several battalions, each will conform itself, in its turn,
to what shall have been commanded for the leading battalion, observing to execute each
movement at the same place and in the same manner.

         258. Finally, to render the mechanism of all those movements familiar to the troops, and
to habituate them to march in the route step without elongating the column, commanders will
generally cause their battalions to march in this step, going to, and returning from, fields of
exercise. Each will occasionally conduct his battalion through narrow passes, in order to make it
perceive the utility of the principles prescribed above; and he will several times, in every course
of instruction, march it in the route step, and cause to be executed, sometimes at once, and
sometimes successively, the divers movements which have just been indicated.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  31

         0-259. On marches, the companies of skirmishers, if present, will habitually take post in
the column, the first company in front of the first, and the second company of skirmishers in rear
of the last battalion company. The junior major will in this case take post abreast of the color
company, and six paces from its reverse flank.

                 GENERAL REMARKS ON THE COLUMN IN ROUTE.

         260. The lesson relative to the column in route is, by its frequent application, one of the
most important that can be given to troops. If it be not well taught and established on right
principles, it will happen that the rear of the column in route will be obliged to run, to regain
distances, or that the front will be forced to halt till the rear shall have accomplished that object;
thus rendering the march greatly slower, or greatly more fatiguing, generally both, than if it were
executed according to rule.

         261. The ordinary progress of a column in route ought to be, on good roads or good
grounds, at the rate of one hundred and ten paces in a minute. This rate may be easily
maintained by columns of almost any depth; but over bad roads, ploughed fields, loose sands, or
mountainous districts, the progress cannot be so great, and must therefore be regulated according
to circumstances.

         262. The most certain means of marching well in route, is to preserve always a regular
and equal movement, and, if obstacles oblige one or more subdivisions to slacken or to shorten
the step, to cause the primitive rate of march to be resumed the moment the difficulties are
passed.

         263. A subdivision ought never to take more than the prescribed distance from the
subdivision immediately preceding; but it is sometimes necessary to lessen that distance.

         264. Thus: the head of the column encounters an obstacle which obliges it to relax its
march; all the following subdivisions will preserve the habitual step, and close up in mass, if
necessary, on the subdivision nearest to the obstacle. Distances will afterward naturally be
recovered as each subdivision shall successively have passed the obstacle. Nevertheless, if the
difficulty be too great to be overcome by one subdivision, whilst the next is closing up, so that
distances cannot afterward be recovered without running, the chief of the column will halt the
leading subdivision beyond the obstacle, at a distance sufficient to contain the whole column in
mass. He will then put the column in march, the subdivisions taking distances by the head,
observing to commence the movement in time, so that the last subdivision may not be obliged to
halt, after having cleared the obstacle.

         265. When the chief of a column shall wish to change the rate of march, he will cause the
leading battalion to quicken or to relax the step insensibly, and send orders to the other battalions
each to regulate itself by that which precedes it.

         266. The column being composed of several battalions, the general will always leave an
aid-de-camp with its rear to bring him prompt information if it find a difficulty in following.

         267. Subdivisions ought always to step out well in obliquing, both in breaking and
forming companies or platoons. When either is done in succession, it is highly important that no
subdivision slacken or shorten the step while that which precedes it is engaged in the movement.
The observance of this principle can alone prevent an elongation of the column.

         268. If the battalion, marching by the flank, encounter a pass so narrow as to oblige it to
defile with a front of two men, the colonel will order support arms, take the cadenced step, and
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  32

undouble the files, which will be executed as pre scribed in the S. C., No. 331; the files will
double again as soon as the breadth of the way will permit.

         269. If the defile be only sufficient to receive a front of one man, the colonel will cause
the men to pass one at a time, which will be executed as prescribed in the S. C., Nos. 334 and
335. The men of the same file should follow each other in their order as closely as possible, and
without loss of time. As soon as the defile permits a front of two or four men, the battalion will
be reformed into two or four ranks, as prescribed in the S. C., Nos. 336, 337, 338, and 339, and
will march in this order until there be space to form platoons or sections, as indicated No. 250.

         270. In both cases, just supposed, the head of the battalion, after having passed the defile,
will march till sufficient space be left to contain the whole of the subdivisions in mass; afterward
it will be put in march by the means indicated No. 264.

         271. When a command has to move rapidly over a given distance, the movements
prescribed in this article will be executed in double quick time; if the distance be long, the chief
of the column will not allow the march at this gait to be continued for more than fifteen minutes;
at the end of this time, he will order the ordinary route step to be marched for five minutes, and
then again resume the double quick. If the ground be uneven, having considerable ascents and
descents, he will reserve the double quick for those parts of the ground most favorable to this
march.

         272. A column marching alternately in double quick time and the ordinary route step, in
the manner stated, can easily accomplish very long distances in a very short space of time; but
when the distance to be passed over is not greater than two miles, it ought to be accomplished,
when the ground is favorable, without changing the rate of march.

                                                ARTICLE III.

                      To change direction in column at full distance.

         273. The column being in march in the cadenced step, when the colonel shall wish to
cause it to change direction, he will go to the point at which the change ought to be commenced
and establish a marker there, presenting the breast to the flank of the column; this marker, no
matter to which side the change of direction is to be made, will be posted on the opposite side,
and he will remain in position till the last subdivision of the battalion shall have passed. The
leading subdivision being within a few paces of the marker, the colonel will command:

                                 Head of column to the left (or right).

         274. At this, the chief of the leading subdivision will immediately take the guide on the
side opposite the change of direction, if not already there. This guide will direct himself so as to
graze the breast of the marker; arrived at this point, the chief will cause his subdivision to change
direction by the commands and according to the principles prescribed in the school of the
company. When the wheel is completed, the chief of this subdivision will retake the guide, if
changed, on the side of the primitive direction.

         275. The chief of each succeeding subdivision, as well as the guides, will conform to
what has just been explained for the leading subdivision.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  33

         276. The colonel will carefully see that the guide of each subdivision, in wheeling, does
not throw himself without or within, but passes over all the points of the arc of the circle, which
he ought to describe.

         277. As often as no distinct object presents itself in the new direction, the lieutenant-
colonel will place himself upon it in advance, at the distance of thirty or forty paces from the
marker, and be assured in this direction by the colonel; the leading guide will take, the moment
he shall have changed direction, two points on the ground in the straight line which, drawn from
himself, would pass between the heels of the lieutenant-colonel, taking afterward new points as
he advances.

         278. The senior major will see that the guides direct themselves on the marker posted at
the point of change, so as to graze his breast.

         279. At the command head of column to the right, by the colonel, the chief of the first
platoon column will command: 1. By the right flank. 2. By file right. At this, the chiefs and
guides wilt take their places on the right of their respective platoons.

         0-280. At the command march, by the captain of the first battalion company, the
platoons, conducted by their chiefs, will commence the movement; the chief of the second
platoon will stand fast and let his platoon file past, and when the left file has arrived abreast with
him he will command: 1. Mark time. 2. MARCH, and face his platoon to the front. The
platoon guide will immediately take his place on its left. The first platoon will move diagonally
to the rear, and file into column parallel to the second; when the chief has arrived abreast with
the left of the second he will halt in his own person, let his platoon file past, and it will then
execute what has been prescribed for the second platoon.

         0-281. When the first battalion company shall have arrived abreast with the first platoon,
the platoon column will be put in march by its chief, taking the guide to the left, and regaining
the distance of thirty-three paces from the right flank of the battalion column.

         0-282. When the second platoon column shall have arrived at a distance of thirty-three
paces from the right flank of the column in its new direction, it will change direction to the right
by command of its chief, and its first platoon will march abreast with the last battalion company,
when that company takes the new direction.

         0-283. If the change of direction is to the left, the first platoon column will take the guide
to the right, and increase the gait by command of its chief, it will change direction at the same
time with the first battalion company, taking care to maintain its relative position and distance. It
will resume the step of the battalion when its direction is changed.

         0-284. When the last battalion company changes direction the second platoon column
will conform to what has just been prescribed for the first. If the column be composed of several
battalions, the lieutenant-colonel of the second, will cause the marker of the first battalion, to be
replaced as soon as the last subdivision of this battalion shall have passed; this disposition will be
observed by battalion after battalion, to the rear of the column.

                                                  REMARKS.

         285. It has been demonstrated, school of the company, how important it is, first, that each
subdivision execute its change of direction precisely at the point where the leading one had
changed, and that it arrive in a square with the direction; second, that the wheeling point ought
always to be cleared in time, in order that the subdivision engaged in the wheel may not arrest
the movement of the following one. The deeper the column, the more rigorously ought these
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  34

principles to be observed; because, a fault that would be but slight in a column of a single
battalion, would cause much embarrassment in one of great depth.

                                                ARTICLE IV.

                                           To halt the column.

         286. The column being in march, when the colonel shall wish to halt it, he will command:

                                            1. Column. 2. HALT.

         287. At the second command, briskly repeated by the captains and by the chiefs of
platoons of the companies of skirmishers, the column will halt; no guide will stir, though he may
have lost his distance, or be out of the direction of the preceding guides.

         288. The column being in march, in double quick time, will be halted by the same
commands. At the command halt, the men will halt in their places, and will themselves rectify
their positions in the ranks.

         289. The column being halted, when the colonel shall wish to form it into line of battle,
he will move a little in front of the leading guide, and face to him; this guide and the following
one will fix their eyes on the colonel, in order promptly to conform themselves to his directions.

         290. If the colonel judge it not necessary to give a general direction to the guides, he will
limit himself to rectifying the position of such as may be without, or within the direction, by the
command: Guide of (such) company, or guides of (such) companies, to the right (or to
the left); at this command, the guides designated will place themselves on the direction; the
others will stand fast.

         291. If, on the contrary, the colonel judge it necessary to give a general direction to the
guides of the column, he will place the first two on the direction he shall have chosen, and
command:

                                                 Guides, cover.

         292. At this, the following guides will promptly place themselves on the direction
covering the first two in file, and each precisely at a distance equal to the front of his company,
from the guide immediately preceding; the lieutenant-colonel will assure them in the direction,
and the colonel will command:

                                          Left (or right)--DRESS.

         293. At this command, briskly repeated by the chiefs of subdivisions, each company will
incline to the right or left, and dress forward or backward, so as to bring the designated flank to
rest on its guide; each captain will place himself two paces outside of his guide, promptly align
his company parallelly with that which precedes, then command FRONT, and return to his
place in column.

                                                 ARTICLE V.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  35

                     To close the column to half distance, or in mass.

         294. A column by company being at full distance right in front, and at a halt, when the
colonel shall wish to cause it to close to half distance, on the leading company, he will
command:

       1. To half distance, close column. 2. MARCH. (or double quick--MARCH).

         295. At the first command, the captain of the leading company will caution it to stand
fast.

         0-296. At the same command, the chief of the first platoon, of the first platoon column,
will caution his platoon to stand fast.

         297. At the command march, which will be repeated by all the captains, except the
captain of the leading company, this company will stand fast, and its chief will align it by the
left; the file closers will close one pace upon the rear rank.

         298. All the other companies will continue to march, and as each in succession arrives at
platoon distance from the one which precedes, its captain will halt it.

         299. At the instant that each company halts, its guide will place himself on the direction
of the guides who precede, and the captain will align the company by the left; the file closers will
close one pace upon the rear rank.

         300. No particular attention need be given to the general direction of the guides before
they respectively halt; it will suffice if each follow in the trace of the one who precedes him.

         0-301. At the command march, repeated by the chief of the second platoon, of the first
platoon column, and by the chiefs of platoon of the second platoon column, the first platoon of
the first platoon column will stand fast, its second platoon will close in mass on its first, and its
chief will align it by the left.

         0-302. When the last battalion company halts, the second platoon of the second platoon
column, will close in mass on its first platoon, which has halted at the same time; its chief will
align it by the left.

         303. The colonel, on the side of the guides, will superintend the execution of the
movement, observing that the captains halt their companies exactly at platoon distance, the one
from the other.

         304. The lieutenant-colonel, a few paces in front, will face to the leading guide, and
assure the positions of the following guides, as they successively place themselves on the
direction.

         305. The senior major will follow the movement abreast with the last guide. The junior
major will follow the movement abreast with the color company.

         306. If the column be in march, the colonel will cause it to close by the same commands.
         307. If the column be marching in double quick time, at the first command, the captain of
the leading company will command, quick time; the chiefs of the other companies will caution
them to continue their march.
         0-308. At the first command, the chief of the leading platoon of the first platoon column,
will command, quick time; the chiefs of the other platoons will caution them to continue the
march.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  36

         309. At the command march, the leading company will march in quick, and the other
companies in double quick time; and as each arrives at platoon distance from the preceding one,
its chief will cause it to march in quick time.

         310. When the rearmost company shall have gained its distance, the colonel, should he
wish to resume the previous gait, will command:

                                         Double quick--MARCH.

         0-311. At the command march, the leading platoon of the first platoon column will march
in quick, and the other platoons in double quick time. As the second platoon of each platoon
column arrives at six paces from its preceding one, its chief will cause it to march in quick time.

         312. When the colonel shall wish to halt the column, and cause it to close to half distance
at the same time, he will notify the captain of the leading company and the chief of the leading
platoon of skirmishers of his intention. At the command march, the captain of the leading
battalion company will halt his company, and align it by the left.

         0-313. At the same command, the chief of the leading platoon of the first platoon column
will halt his platoon, and dress it to the left.

         314. If the column be marching in quick time, and the colonel should not give the
command double quick, the captain of the leading company will halt his company at the
command march, and align it by the left. In the case where the colonel adds the command double
quick, the captains of companies will conform to what is prescribed No. 307, and the movement
will be executed as indicated No. 309.

         0-315. The chief of the leading platoon of the leading platoon column, will conform to
what is required above for the chief of the leading company of the battalion column.

 TO CLOSE THE COLUMN ON THE EIGHTH, OR REARMOST COMPANY.

         316. The column being at a halt, if instead of causing it to close to half distance on the
first company, the colonel should wish to cause it to close on the eighth, he will command:

    1. On the eighth company, to half distance, close column. 2. Battalion about--
FACE. 3. Column forward. 4. Guide right. 5. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         317. At the first command the captain of the eighth company will caution it to remain
faced to the front; at the second command, all the companies except the eighth, will face about,
and their guides will remain in the front rank, now the rear.

         0-318. At the first command, each chief of platoon of the first platoon column, will
caution it to face about; the chiefs of platoon of the second platoon column will caution them to
stand fast. At the second command the first platoon column will face about, the guides
remaining in the front rank, now rear.

         319. At the fourth command, all the captains will place themselves two paces outside of
their companies on the directing flank.

         0-320. At the same command, each chief of platoon of the first platoon columns will
place himself two paces outside his platoon, and on its directing flank.

         321. At the command march, the eighth company will stand fast, its captain will align it
by the left, and the file closers will close one pace on the rear rank. The other companies will put
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  37
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  38

themselves in march, and, as each arrives at platoon distance from the one established before it,
its captain will halt it and face it to the front. At the moment that each company halts, the left
guide, remaining faced to the rear, will place himself promptly on the direction of the guides
already established. Immediately after, the captain will align his company by the left, and the
file closers will close one pace on the rear rank. If this movement be executed in double quick
time, each captain, in turn, will halt, and command: Such company, right about--HALT. At
this command, the company designated will face to the right about and halt.

         0-322. At the command march, the first platoon of the second platoon column will stand
fast; the others will put themselves in march with the guide on the side of the battalion column;
when the second platoon of the first platoon column has arrived at a distance from the second
battalion company, equal to the difference between the platoon front and six paces, it will be
halted and faced about by its chief; when the first battalion company halts; the first platoon will
be halted and faced about by its chief, the platoons will be dressed to the left by their respective
chiefs, the second at six paces from the first. The second platoon of the second platoon column,
will close in mass on its first platoon.

         323. All the companies being aligned, the colonel will cause the guides, who stand faced
to the rear, to face about.

         324. The lieutenant-colonel, placing himself behind the rearmost guide, will assure
successively the positions of the other guides, as prescribed No. 304; the senior major will
remain abreast with the rearmost company. The junior major will keep abreast with the color
company.

         325. The column being in march, when the colonel shall wish to close it on the eighth
company, he will command:

 1. On the eighth company, to half distance, close column. 2. Battalion right about.
                    3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH). 4. Guide right.

         326. At the first command, the captain of the eighth company will caution his company
that it will remain faced to the front; the captains of the other companies will caution their
companies that they will have to face about.

         0-327. At the same command each chief of platoon of the second platoon column will
caution his platoon that it will have to remain faced to the front; the chiefs of platoon of the first
platoon column will caution them that they will have to face about.

         328. At the command march, the captain of the eighth company will halt his company
and align it by the left; the file closers will close one pace upon the rear rank.

         329. The captains of the other companies, at the same command, will place themselves
on the flank of the column; the subdivisions will face about, the guides remaining in the front
rank, now become the rear, and as each arrives at platoon distance from the company
immediately preceding it, its chief will face it to the front and halt it as prescribed No. 321. The
instant each company halts, the guide on the directing flank, remaining faced to the rear, will
quickly place himself on the direction of the guides already established. After which, the captain
will align the company by the left, and the file closers will close one pace upon the rear rank.

         0-330. At the command march, the chief of the first platoon of the second platoon
column will halt his platoon and align it to the left; the chief of the second platoon will close his
platoon in mass upon the first; the chiefs of platoons of the first platoon column will place
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  39

themselves on the flank of the platoons; the platoons will face about, and execute what is
prescribed No. 322.

         331. The lieutenant-colonel will follow the movement abreast of the first company. The
senior major will place himself a few paces in rear of the guide of the eighth company, and will
assure successively the position of the other guides. The junior major will keep the position
prescribed No. 305.

                                                  REMARKS.

         332. A column by division at full distance will close to half distance by the same means
and the same commands.

         333. A column, by company, or by division, being at full or half distance, the colonel will
cause it to close in mass by the same means and commands, substituting the indication, column,
close in mass, for that of to half distance close column. Each chief of subdivision will conform
himself to all that has just been prescribed, except that he will not halt his subdivision till its
guide shall be at a distance of six paces from the guide of the subdivision next preceding.

         334. In a column, left in front, these various movements will be executed on the same
principles.

                                                ARTICLE VI.

               To march in column at half distance, or closed in mass.

         335. A column at half distance or in mass being at a halt, the colonel will put it in march
by the commands prescribed for a column at full distance.

         336. The means of direction will also be the same for a column at half distance, or in
mass, as for a column at full distance. If the column is in mass, the junior major will occupy the
position prescribed No. 259.

         337. A column at half distance or in mass, being in march, when the colonel shall wish to
halt it, he will give the commands prescribed for halting a column at full distance, and if,
afterward, he judge it necessary to give a general direction to the guides of the column, he will
employ, to this end, the commands and means indicated, No. 290 and following.

         338. In columns at half distance or closed in mass, chiefs of subdivision will repeat the
commands march and halt, as in columns at full distance.

         339. The colonel will often march the column to the rear, by the means and the
commands prescribed Nos. 225 and 226.

         340. A column by division or company, whether at full or half distance or closed in mass,
at a halt or marching, can be faced to the right or left, and marched off in the new direction.

         341. If in the case above indicated the companies of skirmishers are present, the platoon
columns as also the battalion column will be directed as prescribed Nos. 140, 141 and 142.

                                                  REMARKS.

         0-342. When one or more platoons of the companies of skirmishers are deployed, to
cover a battalion while in column by company or division at half distance, and the colonel
desires their recall, but not with a view to forming square, it will be executed as prescribed No.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  40
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  41

95; observing what follows, the platoon columns on reaching their positions will be closed in
mass, instead of keeping their full distances.

                                                ARTICLE VII.

                     To change direction in column at half distance.

         343. A column at half distance, being in march, will change direction by the same
commands and according to the same principles as a column at full distance; but as the distance
between the subdivisions is less, the pivot man in each subdivision will take steps of fourteen
inches instead of nine, and of seventeen inches instead of eleven, according to the gait, in order
to clear, in time, the wheeling point, and the marching flank will describe the arc of a larger
circle, the better to facilitate the movement.

         0-344. At the command march by the colonel, the platoon columns of the companies of
skirmishers, will change direction according to the principles prescribed No. 279 and following:

                                               ARTICLE VIII.

                      To change direction in column closed in mass.

                                 1st. To change direction in marching.

         345. A column by division, closed in mass, being in march, will change direction by the
front of subdivisions.

         346. Whether the change be made to the reverse, or to the pivot flank, it will always be
executed on the principle of wheeling in marching; to this end, the colonel will first cause the
battalion to take the guide on the flank opposite to the intended change of direction, if it be not
already on that flank.

         347. A column by division, closed in mass, right in front, having to change direction to
the right, the colonel, after having caused a marker to be placed at the point where the change
ought to commence, will command:

                                1. Battalion, right wheel. 2. MARCH.

         348. At the command march, the leading division will wheel as if it were part of a
column at half distance.

         349. The instant that this division commences the wheel, all the others will, at once,
conform themselves to its movement; to this end the left guide of each, advancing slightly the
left shoulder; and lengthening a little the step, will incline to the left, and will observe, at the
same time, to gain so much ground to the front that there may constantly be an interval of four
paces between his division and that which precedes it; and as soon as he shall cover the
preceding guide, he will cease to incline and then march exactly in his trace.

         350. Each division will conform itself to the movement of its guide; the men will feel
lightly the elbow toward him and advance a little the left shoulder the instant the movement
commences; each file, in inclining, will gain so much the less ground to the front as the file shall
be nearer to the pivot, and the right guide will gain only so much as may be necessary to
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  42
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  43

maintain between his own and the preceding division the same distance which separates their
marching flanks.

         351. Each chief of division, turning to it, win regulate its march, and see that it remains
constantly included between its guides, that its alignment continues nearly parallel to that of the
preceding division, and that the centre bends only a little to the rear.

         352. The colonel will superintend the movement, and cause the pivot of the leading
division to lengthen or to shorten the step, conforming to the principle established in the S. C.,
No. 232 ­ if either be necessary to facilitate the movement of the other divisions.

         353. The lieutenant-colonel, placed near the left guide of the leading division, will
regulate his march, and take care, above all, that he does not throw himself within the arc he
ought to describe.

         354. The senior major, placed in the rear of the guides, will see that the last three conform
themselves, each by slight degrees, to the movement of the guide immediately preceding, and
that neither inclines too much in the endeavor to cover too promptly the guide in his front; he
will rectify any serious fault that may be committed in either of those particulars.

         355. The colonel, seeing the wheel nearly ended, will command:

                                         1. Forward. 2. MARCH.

         356. At the second command, which will be given at the instant the leading division
completes its wheel, it will resume the direct march; the other divisions will conform themselves
to this movement; and if any guide find himself not covering his immediate leader, he will, by
slight degrees, bring himself on the trace of that guide by advancing the right shoulder.

         357. If the column, right in front, has to change direction to the left, the colonel will first
cause it to take the guide to the right, and then command:

                                 1. Battalion, left wheel. 2. MARCH.

         358. At the command march, the battalion will change direction to the left according to
the principles just prescribed, and by inverse means.

         359. When the battalion shall have resumed the direct march, the colonel will change the
guide to the left, on seeing the last three guides nearly in the direction of the one in front.

         360. The foregoing changes of direction will be executed according to the same
principles in a column, left in front.

         361. A column by company, closed in mass, will change direction in marching, by the
commands and means indicated for a column by division.

         362. The guide who is the pivot of the particular wheel, ought to maintain himself at his
usual distance of six paces from the guide who precedes him; if this distance be not exactly
preserved, the divisions would necessarily become confounded, which must be carefully
avoided.

         0-363. The platoon columns of the companies of skirmishers will change direction as
prescribed for the battalion column, the leading platoons preserving their alignment with the first
and last divisions respectively.

                                                  REMARKS.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  44
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  45

         0-364. When one or more platoons of the companies of skirmishers are deployed to cover
a battalion closed in mass, either by company, or division, and the colonel desires their recall, it
will be executed as prescribed No. 342.

                                 2nd. To change direction from a halt.

         365. A column by company, or by division, closed in mass, being at a halt, when the
colonel shall wish to give it a new direction, and in which it is to remain, he will cause it to
execute this movement by the flanks of subdivisions, in the following manner:

         366. The battalion having the right in front, when the colonel shall wish to cause it to
change direction by the right flank, he will indicate to the lieutenant-colonel the point of
direction to the right; this officer will immediately establish, on the new direction, two markers,
distant from each other a little less than the front of the first subdivision, the first marker in front
of the right file of this subdivision; which being executed, he will command:

 1. Change direction by the right flank. 2. Battalion, right--FACE. 3. MARCH (or
                                         double quick--MARCH).

         367. At the second command, the column will face to the right, and each chief of
subdivision will place himself by the side of his right guide.

         0-368. At the same command the platoon columns of the companies of skirmishers will
face to the right, the guides will place themselves on the right of their platoons respectively, and
each chief of platoon will place himself by the side of his guide.

         369. At the command march, all the subdivisions will step off together; the right guide of
the leading one will direct himself from the first step, parallelly to the markers placed in advance
on the new direction; the chief of the sub division will not follow the movement, but see it file
past, and as soon as the left guide shall have passed he will command:

      1. First company (or first division). 2. HALT. 3. FRONT. 4. Left--DRESS.

         370. At the fourth command, the subdivision, will place itself against the two markers,
and be promptly aligned by its chief.

         371. The right guide of each of the following subdivisions will conform himself to the
direction of the right guide of the subdivision preceding his own in the column, so as to enter on
the new direction parallelly to that subdivision, and at the distance of four paces from its rear
rank.

         372. Each chief of subdivision will halt in his own person, on arriving opposite to the left
guides already placed on the new direction, see his subdivision file past, and conform himself, in
halting and aligning it, to what is prescribed No. 369.

         0-373. At the command march, by the colonel, the platoon columns will step off together,
each chief of platoon placed by the side of his guide will conduct it to its new position, which
will be executed according to the principles prescribed for the battalion column. When the
movement is completed, the relative positions of platoons and the battalion column, will be the
same as before the change of direction.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  46

         374. If the change of direction be by the left flank, the colonel will cause markers to be
established as before, the first in front of the left file of the leading subdivision, and then give the
same commands, substituting the indication left for right.

         375. At the second command, all the subdivisions will face to the left, and each chief will
place himself by the side of the left guide.

         0-376. At the same command, the platoon columns will face to the left, and each chief of
platoon will place himself by the side of his guide.

         377. At the command march, all the subdivisions will step off together, each conducted
by its chief.

         378. The guide of the leading subdivision will direct himself, from the first step,
parallelly to the markers; the subdivision will be conducted by its chief; and as soon as its left
guide shall have passed the second marker, it will be halted and aligned as prescribed above; and
so of each of the following subdivisions.

         0-379. At the command march, the platoon columns will step off together, and each
platoon, conducted by its chief, will conform to the principles prescribed No. 373, the chiefs of
platoon taking care so to conduct them, that when they file to the right, to march on the
prolongation of the subdivisions of the battalion column, they will have sufficient distance to
march over, so as to enter on the new direction in their full length before halting.

         380. The colonel will hold himself on the designated flank, to see that each subdivision
enters the new direction parallelly to the leading one, and at the prescribed distance from that
which precedes.

         381. The lieutenant-colonel will place himself in front of, and facing, to, the guide of the
leading subdivision, and will assure the positions of the following guides, as they successively
arrive on the new direction.

         382. The senior major will follow the movement abreast with the last subdivision; the
junior major will occupy the position prescribed No. 336.

         383. In order that this movement may be executed with facility and precision, it is
necessary that the leading subdivision should entirely unmask the column; for example, the
movement being made by the right flank, it is necessary, before halting the leading subdivision,
that its left guide shall, at least, have arrived at the place previously occupied by its right guide,
in order that each following subdivision which has to pass over a space at least equal to its front,
to put itself in the new direction, and whose left ought to pass the point at which the right had
rested, may, at the command halt, find itself, in its whole front, parallel to the leading
subdivision.

         384. By this method there is no direction that may not be given to a column in mass.

                                                ARTICLE IX.

    Being in column at half distance, or closed in mass, to take distances.

         385. A column at half distance will take full distances by the head of the column when it
has to prolong itself in a column of route; it may also take full distance by the head of the column
for the purposes of instruction, breaking into platoons, forming divisions, &c., &c. If it has to
form itself in line of battle on the ground it occupies, it will take distances on the leading or on
the rearmost subdivision, according as the one or other may find itself at the point where the
right or left of the battalion ought to rest in line of battle.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  47

                         1st. To take distances by the head of the column.

         386. The column being by company at half distance and at a halt, when the colonel shall
wish to cause it to take full distances by the head, he will command:

                          By the head of column, take wheeling distance.

         387. At this command, the captain of the leading company will put it in march; to this
end, he will command:

  1. First company, forward. 2. Guide left. 3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         388. When the second shall have nearly its wheeling distance, its captain will command:

1. Second company, forward. 2. Guide left. 3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         389. At the command march, which will be pronounced at the instant that this company
shall have its wheeling distance, it will step off smartly, taking the step from the preceding
company. Each of the other companies will successively execute what has just been prescribed
for the second.

         390. The colonel will see that each company puts itself in march at the instant it has its
distance.

         391. The lieutenant-colonel will hold himself at the head of the column, and direct the
march of the leading guide.

         392. The senior major will hold himself abreast with the rearmost guide. The junior
major will take post as prescribed Nos. 94 or 259, as the column may be in the cadence or route
step.

         393. If the column, instead of being at a halt, be in march, the colonel will give the same
commands, and add:

                                                    MARCH.

         394. If the column be marching in quick time, at the first command given by the colonel,
the captain of the leading company will command: Double quick. At the command march, the
company will take the double quick step, which will also be done by the other captains as their
companies successively attain their proper wheeling distances. Should it be the wish of the
colonel to resume the quick time after attaining the wheeling distances, he will give the
necessary commands.

         395. If the column be marching in double quick time, the leading company will continue
to march at the same gait. At the first command by the colonel, the captains of the other
companies will command: quick time. At the command march, these companies will take the
quick step, and as each company gains its proper distance its captain will cause it to retake the
double quick step.

                                                  REMARKS.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  48

         0-396. If the companies of skirmishers are present with, but do not march in the column,
in taking full distance, at the first command by the colonel, the chief of the leading platoon will
give the same commands as prescribed for the captain of the leading battalion company, and
march abreast with that company; the other platoons will take their distances by the means
prescribed for the battalion companies, the leading platoon of the last platoon column taking up
the march at the same time, and marching abreast with the last battalion company.

                         2nd. To take distances on the rear at the column.

         397. If the colonel wish to take distances on the rearmost company, he will establish two
markers on the direction he shall wish to give to the line of battle, the first opposite to the
rearmost company, the second marker toward the head of the column, at company distance from
the first, and both facing to the rear; at the same time, the right general guide, on an intimation
from the lieutenant-colonel, will move rapidly a little beyond the point to which the head of the
column will extend, and place himself correctly on the prolongation of the two markers. These
dispositions being made, the colonel will command:

1. On the eighth company, take wheeling distance. 2. Column forward. 3. Guide left.
                               4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         398. At the first command, the captain of the eighth company will caution it to stand fast.
At the third command, the captains will place themselves two paces outside of the directing
flank.

         0-399. At the first command, the chief of the second platoon of the second platoon
column will face his platoon about. At the third command, he will command guide right, and
place himself two paces outside of its directing flank; at the first command, the chief of the first
platoon of the same column, and the chief of the second platoon of the first platoon column, will
caution their platoons to stand fast.

         400. At the command march, repeated by all the captains, except the captain of the eighth
company, this latter company will stand fast; its chief will align it by the left on the first marker,
who is opposite to this company, the left guide stepping in rear of the left file for this purpose,
and place himself before its centre, after commanding: FRONT. At this command, the marker
will retire, and the left guide will take his place.

         401. All the other companies will put themselves in march, the guide of the leading one
directing himself a little within the right general guide; when the seventh company has arrived
opposite the second marker, its captain will halt, and align it on this marker, in the manner
prescribed for the eighth company.

         402. When the captain of the sixth company shall see that there is, between his company
and the seventh, the necessary space for wheeling into line, he will halt his company; the guide
facing to the rear will place himself promptly on the direction, and the moment he shall be
assured in his position, the captain will align the company by the left, and then place himself two
paces before its centre; the other companies will successively conform themselves to what has
just been prescribed for the sixth company.

         0-403. At the command march, repeated by all the chiefs of platoon of the companies of
skirmishers, except the chief of the second platoon, first platoon column and the first platoon
second platoon column, these two latter platoons will stand fast, the other platoons will put
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  49
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  50

themselves in march, the first platoon first platoon column keeping aligned with the first
battalion company. When the second platoon of the first platoon column shall have nearly its
full distance, its chief will command: 1. Second platoon forward; 2. Guide left; 3.
MARCH (or double quick--MARCH); at which the platoon will step off, its left guide
following in the trace of the guide of the first platoon. When the second platoon of the second
platoon column shall have attained its distance, it will be halted, and faced about, its guide will
cover the guide of the platoon in front, and the platoon will be dressed to the left.

         0-404. The captain of the first company of skirmishers will halt his platoon column at the
same time the first battalion company halts. Each chief of platoon will dress his platoon to the
left, the first in a line with the first battalion company.

         405. The colonel will follow the movement, and see that each company halts at the
prescribed distance; he will promptly remedy any fault that may be committed, and, as soon as
all the companies shall be aligned, he will cause the guides, who are faced to the rear, to face
about.

         406. The lieutenant-colonel will successively assure the left guides on the direction,
placing himself in their rear, as they arrive.

         407. The senior major will hold himself at the head of the column, and will direct the
march of the leading guide. The junior major will hold himself as prescribed No. 94.

                         3rd. To take distances on the head of the column.

         408. The colonel, wishing to take distances on the leading company, will establish two
markers in the manner just prescribed, one abreast with this company, and the other at company
distance in rear of the first, but both facing to the front; the left general guide, on an intimation
from the lieutenant-colonel, will move rapidly to the rear and place himself correctly on the
prolongation of the two markers, a little beyond the point to which the rear of the column will
extend: these dispositions being made, the colonel will command:

     1. On the first company, take wheeling distance. 2. Battalion, about--FACE.
     3. Column, forward. 4. Guide right. 5. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         409. At the first command, the captain of the first company will caution it to remain faced
to the front. At the second command, all the companies, except the one designated, will face
about, the guides remaining in the front rank, now become the rear.

         0-410. At the first command, the chief of the first platoon of the first platoon column,
will caution it to remain faced to the front. At the second command, all the platoons except the
one designated, will face about, the guides remaining as indicated No. 409.

         411. At the fourth command, the captains will place themselves outside of their guides.
         0-412. At the same command, the chief of each second platoon of the platoon column,
will place himself two paces outside his guides.
         413. At the command march, the captain of the designated company will align it, as
prescribed, No. 400, on the marker placed by its side.
         414. The remaining companies will put themselves in march, the guide of the rearmost
one will direct himself a little within the left general guide; when the second company shall have
arrived opposite the second marker, its captain will face it about, conforming to what is
prescribed, No. 321, and align it, as has just been prescribed for the first company. Should the
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  51

movement be performed in quick time at the command halt by the captain, the guide will face
about and place himself on the line.

         415. The instant that the third company shall have its wheeling distance, its captain will
halt it, facing it about as prescribed No. 321, and align it by the left; the captains of the remaining
companies will each, in succession, conform himself to what has just been prescribed for the
captain of the third.

         0-416. At the same command, the first platoon of the first platoon column, will stand fast;
all the other platoons will put themselves in march; the second platoon of the first platoon
column having attained its distance, will be halted by its chief, faced about and dressed to the
left; the first platoon of the second platoon column will march on a line with the last battalion
company, will be halted and faced about at the same time with that company, and dressed to the
left; the second platoon of this same column having attained its distance will execute what has
just been prescribed for the second platoon of the first platoon column.

         417. The colonel will follow the movement, as indicated No. 405; the lieutenant-colonel
and senior major will conform themselves to what is prescribed, No. 406 and 407; the junior
major will hold himself abreast with the color company on the reverse flank.

         418. These various movements will be executed according to the same principles in a
column with the left in front.

         419. They will be executed in like manner in a column closed in mass; but, if it be the
wish of the colonel to open out the column to half, instead of full distance, he will substitute, in
the commands, the indication half, for that of wheeling distance.

         420. In a column by division, distances will be taken according to the same principles.

                                                   REMARK.

         0-421. The platoon columns will retain the close order when the battalion column takes
half distance from being closed in mass.

                                                 ARTICLE X.

                   Countermarch of a column at full or half distance.

         422. In a column at full or half distance, the countermarch will be executed by the means
indicated, school of the company; to this end, the colonel will command:

     1. Countermarch. 2. Battalion right (or left)--FACE. 3. By file left (or right).
                               4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         0-423. If the column is at full distance right or left in front, in countermarching the
platoon columns will countermarch at the commands given for the battalion column and by the
means prescribed in the S. C., No. 350, observing what follows; at the second command by the
colonel, the guides of the platoons before facing about, will advance on the prolongation of the
line, passing through them a distance equal to the front of a platoon. At the command march,
each platoon will file to the front a platoon distance before filing to the left or right, for the
purpose of being dressed on its guide.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  52
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  53

                         To countermarch a column closed in mass.

         424. If the column be closed in mass, the countermarch will be executed by the
commands and means subjoined.

         425. The column being supposed formed by division, right in front, the colonel will
command:

    1. Countermarch. 2. Battalion, right and left--FACE. 3. By file left and right.
                               4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         426. At the first command, the chiefs of the odd-numbered divisions will caution them to
face to the right, and the chiefs of the others to face to the left.

         427. At the second command, the odd divisions will face to the right, and the even to the
left; the right and left guides of all the divisions will face about; the chiefs of odd divisions will
hasten to their right and cause two files to break to the rear, and each chief place himself on the
left of the leading front-rank man of his division; the chiefs of even divisions will hasten to their
left, and cause two files to break to the rear, and each chief place himself on the right of his
leading front-rank man.

         428. At the command march, all the divisions, each conducted by its chief, will step off
smartly, the guides standing fast; each odd division will wheel by file to the left around its right
guide; each even division will wheel by file to the right around its left guide, each division 80
directing its march as to arrive behind its opposite guide, and when its head shall be up with this
guide, the chief will halt the division, and cause it to face to the front.

         429. Each division, on facing to the front, will be aligned by its chief by the right; to this
end, the chiefs of the even divisions will move rapidly to the right of their respective divisions.

         430. The divisions being aligned, each chief will command, FRONT; at this, the guides
will shift to their proper flanks.

         431. In a column with the left in front, the countermarch will be executed by the same
commands and means; but all the divisions will be aligned by the left; to this end, the chiefs of
the odd divisions will hasten to the left of their respective divisions as soon as the latter shall
have been faced to the front.

         432. The colonel, placed on the directing flank, will superintend the general movement.
         433. The countermarch being ended, the lieutenant-colonel will always place himself
abreast with the leading, and the senior major abreast with the rearmost division, the junior major
will hold himself abreast with the color company.
         434. In a column by company, closed in mass, the countermarch will be executed by the
same means and commands. applying to companies what is prescribed for divisions.
         435. The countermarch will always take place from a halt, whether the column be closed
in mass, or at full or half distance.
         0-436. If the column is at half distance or closed in mass, right or left in front, in counter
marching, the first platoon of each platoon column, will face to the right, and the second platoon
to the left. At the first command by the colonel, each chief of platoon will give the necessary
caution; at the second command the platoons will face at the same time with the battalion
column; the platoon guides before facing about will advance on the prolongation of the line,
passing through them a distance of six paces. At the command march, each platoon conducted
by its chief will file to the front a distance of six paces before filing to the left or right, for the
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  54
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  55

purpose of being dressed on its guide.

                                                ARTICLE XI.

         Being in column by company, closed in mass, to form divisions.

         437. The column being closed in mass, right in front, and at a halt, when the colonel shall
wish to form divisions, he will command:

   1. Form divisions. 2. Left company, left--FACE. 3. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).

         438. At the first command, the captains of the left companies will caution them to face to
the left.

         439. At the second command, the left companies will face to the left, and their captains
will place themselves by the side of their respective left guides.

         440. The right companies, and their captains, will stand fast; but the right and left guides
of each of these companies will place themselves respectively before the right, and left files of
the company, both guides facing to the right, and each resting his right arm gently against the
breast of the front-rank man of the file, in order to mark the direction.

         441. At the command march, the left companies only will put themselves in march, their
captains standing fast; as each shall see that his company, filing past, has nearly cleared the
column, he will command:

                              1. Such company. 2. HALT. 3. FRONT.

         442. The first command will be given when the company shall yet have four paces to
march; the second at the instant it shall have cleared its right company: and the third immediately
after the second.

         443. The company having faced to the front, the files, if there be intervals between them,
will promptly incline to the right; the captain will place himself on the left of the right company
of the division, and align himself correctly on the front rank of that company.

         444. The left guide will place himself at the same time before one of the three left files of
his company, face to the right, and cover correctly the guides of the right company; the moment
his captain sees him established on the direction, he will command:

                                               Right--DRESS.

         445. At this, the left company will dress forward on the alignment of the right company;
the front-rank man, who may find himself opposite to the left guide, will, without preceding his
rank, rest lightly his breast against the right arm of this guide; the captain of the left company
will direct its alignment on this man, and the alignment being assured, he will command,
FRONT; but not quit his position.

         446. The colonel seeing the divisions formed, will command:

                                               Guides--POSTS.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  56

         447. At this, the guides who have marked the fronts of divisions will return to their places
in column, the left guide of each right company passing through the interval in the centre of the
division, the captains and covering sergeants stepping out for that purpose as hereinafter
prescribed No. 470, and the captains will place themselves as prescribed No. 87.

         448. The colonel, from the directing flank of the column, will superintend the general
execution of the movement.

         449. If the column be in march, instead of at a halt, when the colonel shall wish to form
divisions, he will command:

     1. Form divisions. 2. Left companies, by the left flank. 3. MARCH (or double
                                              quick--MARCH).

         450. At the first command, the captains of the right companies will command, Mark
time, the captains of the left companies will caution their companies to face by the left flank.

         451. At the third command, the right companies will mark time, the left companies will
face to the left; the captains of the left companies will each see his company file past him, and
when it has cleared the column, will command: Such company, by the right flank--
MARCH. As soon as the divisions are formed, the colonel will command:

                                         4. Forward. 5. MARCH.

         452. At the fifth command, the column will resume the gait at which it was marching
previous to the commencement of the movement. The guides of each division will remain on the
right and left of their respective companies; the left guide of the right company will pass into the
line of file closers, before the two companies are united; the right guide of the left company will
step into the rear rank. The captains will place themselves as prescribed No. 87.

         453. If the column be at a halt and at full or half distance instead of closed in mass,
divisions will be formed in the same manner; but the captains of the left companies, if the
movement be made in quick time, after commanding FRONT, will each place himself before
the centre of his company, and command, 1. Such company, forward. 2. Guide right. 3.
MARCH. If the movement be made in double quick time, each will command as soon as his
company has cleared the column:

                        1. Such company, by the right flank. 2. MARCH.

         454. The right guide of each left company will so direct his march as to arrive by the side
of the man on the left of the right company. The left company being nearly up with the rear rank
of the right company, its captain will halt it, and the movement will be finished as prescribed No.
444 and following.

         455. If the left be in front, the movement will be executed by inverse means; the right
companies will conform themselves to what is prescribed above for the left companies; and the
two guides, placed respectively, before the right and left files of each left company, will face to
the left. At the command, Guides, posts, given by the colonel, the guides, who have marked
the front of divisions, and the captains, will quickly retake their places in the column.

         456. If the column be marching at full distance, the divisions will be formed as prescribed
No. 236. If it be marching at half distance, the formation will take place by the commands and
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  57
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  58

according to the principles indicated No. 449; if the column be marching in double quick time,
the companies which should mark time will march in quick time by the command of their
captains.

       REMARKS ON THE FORMATION OF DIVISIONS FROM A HALT.

         457. As this movement may be considered as the element of deployments, it ought to be
executed with the utmost accuracy.

         458. If companies marching by the flank do not preserve exactly their distances, there
will be openings between the files at the instant of facing to the front.

         459. If captains halt their companies too early, they will want space, and the files which
have not cleared the flanks of the standing companies will not be able to dress into line without
pushing their ranks laterally.

         460. If, on the contrary, the companies be halted too late, it will be necessary for them to
incline to the right or left in dressing; and, in deployments, either of these faults would lead to
error in the following companies.

         461. As often as the guide shall have to step out to place himself before his subdivision in
order to mark the direction, he will be particularly careful to place himself so as to be opposite to
one of the three outer files of the subdivision when they shall be aligned: if he take too much
distance, and neither of those files finds itself against him, the chiefs of the subdivision will have
no assured point on which to direct the alignment.

         0-462. In the formation of divisions either from a halt or on a march, the platoon columns
of the companies of skirmishers will retain their relative positions to the battalion column, and to
this end the captain of the second platoon column, when tile right is in front, will move his
column up until his leading platoon is on a line with the last division; and when the left is in
front, the captain of the first platoon column will move his column up until his leading platoon is
on a line with the first division.

                                              PART FOURTH.

  DIFFERENT MODES OF PASSING FROM THE ORDER IN COLUMN TO
                                      THE ORDER IN BATTLE.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

                          Manner of determining the line of battle.

         463. The line of battle may be marked or determined in three different manners: 1st, by
placing two markers eighty or a hundred paces apart, on the direction it is wished to give to the
line; 2nd, by placing a marker at the point at which it may be intended to rest a flank, and then
choosing a second point toward the opposite flank, and there posting a second marker distant
from the first a little less than the front of the subdivision; 3rd, by choosing at first the points of
direction for the flanks, and then determining, by intermediate point, the straight line between
those selected points, both of which may sometimes be beyond reach.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  59

                                                 ARTICLE II.

         Mode of passing from column at full distance into line of battle.

                                To the left (or right) into line of battle.

            Column at fun distance, right in front, to the left into line of battle.

         464. A column, right in front, being at a halt, when the colonel shall wish to form it to the
left into line, he will assure the positions of the guides by the means previously indicated, and
then command:

              1. Left into line, wheel. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         465. At the first command, the right guide of the leading company will hasten to place
himself on the direction of the left guides of the column, face to them, and place himself so as to
be opposite to one of the three right files of his company, when they shall be in line: he will be
assured in this position by the lieutenant-colonel.

         466. At the command march, briskly repeated by the captains, the left front-rank man of
each company will face to the left, and rest his breast lightly against the right arm of his guide;
the companies will wheel to the left on the principle of wheeling from a halt, conforming
themselves to what is prescribed in the S. C., No. 244: each captain will turn to his company, to
observe the execution of the movement, and, when the right of the company shall arrive at three
paces from the line of battle, he will command:

                                       1. Such company. 2. HALT.

         467. The company being halted, the captain will place himself on the line by the side of
the left front-rank man of the company next on the right, align himself correctly, and command:

                                              3. Right--DRESS.

         468. At this command, the company will dress up between the captain and the front-rank
man on its left, the captain directing the alignment on that man; the front-rank man on the right
of the right company, who finds himself opposite to its right guide, will lightly rest his breast
against the left arm of this guide.

         469. Each captain, having aligned his company, will command FRONT, and the colonel
will add: Guides--POSTS.

         470. At this command, the guides will return to their places in line of battle, each passing
through the nearest captain's interval; to permit him to pass, the captain will momentarily step
before the first file of his company, and the covering sergeant behind the same file. This rule is
general for all the formations into line of battle.

         471. When companies form line of battle, file closers will always place themselves
exactly two paces from the rear rank, which will sufficiently assure their alignment.

         472. The battalion being correctly aligned, the colonel, lieutenant-colonel, and majors, as
well as the adjutant and sergeant-major, will return to their respective places in line of battle.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  60

This rule is general for all the formations into line of battle; nevertheless, the battalion being in
the school of elementary instruction, the colonel will go to any point he may deem necessary.

         473. A column, with the left in front, will form itself to the right into line of battle,
according to the same principles; the left guide of the left company will place himself, at the first
command, on the direction of the right guides, in a manner corresponding to what is prescribed,
No. 465, for the right guide of the right company.

         474. At the command guides posts, the captains will take their places in line of battle, as
well as the guides. This rule is general for all formations into line of battle, in which the
companies are aligned by the left.

         475. A column by division may form itself into line of battle by the same commands and
means, but observing what follows: if the right be in front, at the command halt, given by the
chiefs of division, the left guide of each right company will place himself on the alignment
opposite to one of the three files on the left of his company; the left guide of the first company,
facing toward the right, will be assured on the direction by the lieutenant-colonel; the left guides
of the other right companies will align themselves correctly on the division guides; to this end
the division guides (on the alignment) will invert, and hold their pieces up perpendicularly before
the centre of their bodies, at the command left into line, wheel. If the column by division be with
the left in front, the right guides of left companies will conform themselves to what has just been
prescribed for the left guides of right companies, and place themselves on the line opposite to
one of the three right files of their respective companies.

         476. A column in march will be formed into line, without halting, by the same commands
and means. At the command march, the guides will halt in their places, and the lieutenant-
colonel will promptly rectify their positions.

         0-477. The platoon columns of the companies of skirmishers will be wheeled into line by
the means prescribed in the S. C., No. 262, and following, observing what follows: if the
battalion column be at a halt, at the first command by the colonel, the captain of each platoon
column will command Forward, guide left (or right), and at the command march, by the
colonel, each platoon column will march to the front a platoon distance, and then be wheeled into
line as above indicated; if the battalion column is on a march, at the first command by the
colonel, the captain of each platoon column will caution his column to continue the march to the
front, and at the command march, by the colonel, they will continue the march, and wheel into
line as above indicated.

         478. If, in forming the column into line, the colonel should wish to move forward,
without halting, he will comma nd:

           1. By companies left wheel. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         479. At the command march, briskly repeated by the captain, each company will wheel to
the left on a fixed pivot, as prescribed in the S. C., No. 266; the left guides will step back into the
rank of file closers before the wheel is completed, and when the right of the companies shall
arrive near the line, the colonel will command:

                              3. Forward. 4. MARCH. 5. Guide centre.

         480. At the fourth command, given at the instant the wheel is completed, the companies
will march directly to the front. At the fifth command, the color and the general guides will
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  61

move rapidly six paces to the front. The colonel will assure the direction of the color; the
captains of companies and the men will, at once, conform themselves to the principles of the
march in line of battle, to be hereinafter indicated, No. 648 and following.

         0-481. At the first command by the colonel, the captain of each platoon column will
caution his column to march straight to the front; at the second command by the colonel each
platoon column, after marching to the front a platoon distance, will be wheeled into line by the
commands and means prescribed in the S. C., No. 265 and following.

         0-482. At the fourth command, the men of each company of skirmishers will move off.
together, each captain placing himself two paces in front of the centre of his company; the first
sergeant will step into the front-rank. At the fifth command, the captains of the first and second
companies of skirmishers will command guide right, and left, respectively, and the right guide of
the first, will march in the trace of the right guide of the first battalion company, and at a distance
from the latter of thirty-three paces; the left guide of the second will march in the trace of the left
guide of the left battalion company, and at the distance above indicated.

         483. The same principles are applicable to a column left in front.

                       By inversion to the right (or left) into line of battle.

         484. When a column, right in front, shall be under the necessity of forming itself into line
faced to the reverse flank, and the colonel shall wish to execute this formation by the shortest
movement, he will command:

               1. By inversion, right into line, wheel. 2. Battalion guide right.

         485. At the first command, the lieutenant-colonel will place himself in front, and facing
to the right guide of the leading subdivision: at the second command, he will rectify, as promptly
as possible, the direction of the right guides of the column; the captain of the odd company, if
there be one, and the column be by division, will promptly bring the right of his company on the
direction, and at company distance from the division next in front;, the left guide of the leading
subdivision will place himself on the direction of the right guides, and will be assured in his
position by the lieutenant-colonel; which being executed, the colonel will command:

                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         486. At this the right front-rank man of each subdivision will face to the right, rest his
breast lightly against the left arm of his guide, and the battalion will form itself to the right into
line of battle, according to the principles prescribed; which being executed, the colonel will
command: Guides--POSTS.

         487. If the column be with the left in front, it will form itself, by inversion, to the left into
line, according to the same principles.

         488. If the colonel should wish the battalion, when formed into line of battle, to be moved
forward, the movement will be executed by the commands, and according to the principles
indicated in No. 478; always preceding the command, by companies right (or left) wheel, by the
command, by inversion.

         0-489. When the column wheels into line by inversion, either at a halt, or on a march, at
the first command by the colonel, the first platoon column will be faced to the right and filed to
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.                                                   62

the left, and the second platoon column will be faced to the left, and filed to the right around the
flanks of the column, and take post as prescribed No. 61. When the line again breaks into
column, at the first command by the colonel, each company of skirmishers will be broken by
platoon, either by wheeling or ploying, and at the command march, they will be moved into their
proper positions in column, according to the principles prescribed for similar movements.

                                        Successive Formations.

         490. Under the denomination of successive formations are included all those formations
where the several subdivisions of a column arrive one after another on the line of battle; such are
formations on the right, or left, and faced to the rear into line of battle, as well as deployments of
columns in mass.

         491. The successive formations which may be ordered when the column is marching, and
is to continue marching, will be executed by a combination of the two gaits, quick and double
quick time.

                                                ARTICLE III.

Different modes of passing from column at half distance, into line of battle.

} 1. To the left (or right)  into line of battle.

2. On the right (or left)
3. Forward, by deployment,
4. Faced to the rear,

1st. Column at half distance, to the left (or right) into line of battle.

         492. A column at half distance having to form itself to the left (or right) into line of
battle, the colonel will cause it to take distances by one of the means prescribed, Article IX., Part
Third, of this school; which being executed, he will form the column into line of battle, as has
been indicated, No. 464, and following.

         493. If a column by company, at half distance be in march, and it be necessary to form
rapidly into line of battle, the colonel will command:

1. By the rear of column left (or right) into line, wheel. 2. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).

         494. At the first command, the right general guide will move rapidly to the front, and

place himself a little beyond the point where the head of the column will rest, and on the
prolongation of the guides. The captain of the eighth company will command: Left into line,
wheel; the other captains will caution their companies to continue to march to the front.

         0-495. At the same command, each chief of platoon of the companies of skirmishers, will
caution his platoon to continue its, march to the front.

         496. At the command march, briskly repeated by the captain of the eighth company, the

guide of this company will halt short, and the company will wheel to the left, conforming to the
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  63
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  64

principles prescribed for wheeling from a halt; when its right shall arrive near the line, the
captain will halt the company, and align it by the left. The other captains will place themselves
briskly on the flank of the column; when the captain of the seventh sees there is sufficient
distance between his company and the eighth to form the latter into line, he will command: Left
into line, wheel--MARCH; the left guide will halt short, and facing to the rear, will place
himself on the line; the company will wheel to the left, the man on the left of the front rank will
face to the left, and place his breast against the left arm of the guide; the captain will halt the
company when its right shall arrive near the line, and will align it by the left. The other
companies will conform successively to what has just been prescribed for the seventh.

         497. Each captain will direct the alignment of his company on the left man in the front
rank of the company next on his right.

         498. The lieutenant-colonel will be watchful that the leading guide marches accurately on
the prolongation of the line of battle, and directs himself on the right general guide. The senior
major, placed in rear of the left guide of the eighth company, will, as soon as the guide of the
seventh company is established on the direction, hasten in rear of the guides of the other
companies, so as to assure each of them in succession on the line. The junior major, will hold his
position abreast with the color company.

         0-499. At the command march, by the colonel, the chief of each platoon of the platoon
columns will place himself on its directing flank; the chief of the second platoon of the second
platoon column, will command, left into line, wheel, and he will add march, as soon as his
guide is abreast with the left file of the last battalion company; at this the guide of the platoon
will halt fast, the platoon will wheel to the left, and will be aligned to the left by its chief; when
the chief of the first platoon of the same column judges there is sufficient distance between his
platoon and the second to form the latter into line, will command, left into line, wheel--
MARCH; the guide of this platoon will hasten to the right of the company, and place himself
abreast with one of the three right files, face toward and cover the left guide, the captain will then
dress the company to the left. When the chief of the second platoon of the first platoon column
arrives abreast with the left file of the first battalion company, it will be wheeled into line, as also
its first platoon, in the manner prescribed for the platoons of the second platoon column.

      2nd. Column at half distance, on the right (or on the left), into line of battle.

         500. A column by company, at half distance and right in front, having to form itself on
the right into line of battle, the colonel will indicate to the lieutenant-colonel a little in advance,
the point d'appui, or rest, for the right, as well as the point of direction to the left; the lieutenant-
colonel will hasten with two markers, and establish them in the following manner on the
direction indicated.

         501. The first marker will be placed at the point d'appui for the right front-rank man of
the leading company; the second will indicate the point where one of the three left files of the
same company will rest when in line; they will be placed so as to present the right shoulder to the
battalion when formed.

         502. These dispositions being made, the colonel will command:

                        1. On the right into line. 2. Battalion, guide right.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  65

         503. At the second command, the right will become the directing flank, and the touch of
the elbow will be to that side; the right guide of the leading company will march straight-forward
until up with the turning point, and each following guide will march in the trace of the one
immediately preceding.

         0-504. At the same command the chief of each platoon column of the companies of
skirmishers will command, company, by the left flank.

         505. The leading company being nearly up with the first marker, its captain will
command: 1. Right turn, and when the company is precisely up with this marker, he will add:
2. MARCH.

         506. At the command march, the company will turn to the right; the right guide will so
direct himself as to bring the man next to him opposite to the right marker, and when at three
paces from him, the captain will command: 1. First company. 2. HALT.

         507. At the second command, the company will halt; the files, not yet in line, will form
promptly; the left guide will retire as a file closer; and the captain will then command: 3.
Right--DRESS.

         508. At this command, the company will align itself; the two men who find themselves
opposite to the two markers, will each lightly rest his breast against the right arm of his marker;
the captain, passing to the right of the front rank, will direct the alignment on these two men.
These rules are general for all successive formations.

         509. The second company will continue to march straight-forward; when arrived opposite
to the left flank of the preceding company, it will turn to the right, and be formed on the line of
battle, as has just been prescribed; the right guide will direct himself so as to come upon that line
by the side of the man on the left of the first company.

         510. At the distance of three paces from the line of battle, the company will be halted by
its captain, who will place himself briskly by the side of the man on the left of the preceding
company, and align himself correctly on its front rank.

         511. The left guide will, at the same time, place himself before one of the three left files
of his company, and, facing to the right, he will place himself accurately on the direction of the
two markers of the preceding company.

         512. The captain will then command: Right--DRESS.
         513. At this command, the second company will dress forward on the line; the captain
will direct its alignment on the front-rank man who has rested his breast against the left guide of
the company.
         514. The following companies will thus come successively to form themselves on the line
of battle, each conforming itself to what has just been prescribed for the one next to the right;
and when they shall all be established, the colonel will command: Guides--POSTS.
         515. At this command, the guides will take their places in line of battle, and the markers
placed before the right company will retire.
         516. If the column be marching in quick time, and the colonel should wish to cause the
movement to be executed in double quick time, he will add the command: Double quick--
MARCH. At the command march, all the companies will take the double quick step, and the
movement will be executed as prescribed No. 503 and following.

         0-517. At the command march, by the captain of the first battalion company, and briskly
repeated by the chiefs of platoon, the platoon columns will face by the left flank, and each chief
will place himself by the side of his guide to conduct his platoon; the first platoon column taking
the guide to the right will move straightforward, and when its head has arrived near the flank of
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  66

the battalion column, it will be halted until the column has passed. When the last company has
passed, the platoon column will be put in march. When the first platoon column shall have
arrived at a perpendicular distance of thirty-three paces from, and abreast with the marker
established on the right of the line, its chief will command: By file right; halt in his own person,
and let his platoon file around him parallel to the line of battle, and when the last file has passed,
it will be halted and faced to the front. The second platoon will pass to the rear of the first, and
when its right file shall arrive abreast with the left file of the first, it will be halted by its chief
and faced to the front. The company will be dressed to the right by its captain.

         0-518. The second platoon column will move to the front, and when the chief of the first
platoon shall arrive abreast with the right file of the last battalion company (when on the line of
battle), and thirty paces from its file closers, he will halt in his own person and let his platoon file
past. This platoon column will then execute what is prescribed for the first. The company will
be dressed to the left by its captain.

         519. The colonel will follow up the formation, passing along the front, and being always
opposite to the company about to turn: it is thus that he will be the better able to see and to
correct the error that would result from a command given too soon or too late to the preceding
company.

         520. The lieutenant-colonel will, with the greatest care, assure the direction of the guides;
to this end, the instant that the markers are established for the leading company, he will move a
little beyond the point at which the left of the next company will rest, establish himself correctly
on the prolongation of the two markers, and assure the guide of the second company on this
direction; this guide being assured, the lieutenant-colonel will place himself farther to the rear, in
order to assure, in like manner, the guide of the third company, and so on, successively, to the
left of the battalion. In assuring the guides in their positions on the line of battle, he will take
care to let them first place themselves, and confine himself to rectifying their positions if they do
not cover accurately, and at the proper distance, the preceding guides or markers. This rule is
general, for all successive formations.

         521. A column, left in front, will form itself on the left into line of battle according to the
same principles: the captains will go to the left of their respective companies to align them, and
shift afterward to their proper flanks, as prescribed No. 474.

         522. In a column left in front, the platoon columns will be governed by the same
principles as are prescribed for them in a column right in front.

 REMARKS ON THE FORMATION ON THE RIGHT, OR LEFT, INTO LINE
                                                 OF BATTLE.

         523. In order that this movement may be executed with regularity, it is necessary to
establish the line of battle so that the guide of each company, after turning; may have at least ten
steps to take, in order to come upon that line.

         524. In the first exercises, the line of battle will be established on a direction parallel to
that of the column; but, when the captains and guides shall comprehend the mechanism of the
movement, the colonel will generally choose oblique directions, in order to habituate the
battalion to form itself in any direction.

         525. When the direction of the line of battle forms a. sensible angle with that of the
march of the column, the colonel, having changed the guide as indicated No. 502, will, before it
arrives opposite the right of the line, give the head of the column a new direction parallel to that
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  67

line; to this end, he will indicate to the guide of the leading company a point in advance, on
which this guide will immediately direct himself, and the company will conform itself to the
direction of its guide, at the command, or on a mere caution, of the captain, according as the
change of direction may require; each following company will make the same movement, on the
same ground, as it shall successively arrive. By this means the guides of all the companies in the
column will have, after turning, nearly the same number of paces to take in order to come upon
the line of battle.

         526. Every captain will always observe, in placing himself on that line, not to give the
command dress, until after the guide of his company shall have been assured on the direction by
the lieutenant-colonel. This rule is general, for all successive formations.

         527. Each captain will cause his company to support arms, the instant that the captain,
who follows him, shall have commanded front. This rule is general for all successive
formations.

         528. When, in the execution of this movement, the colonel shall wish to commence
firing, he will give the order to that effect to the captain whose company is the first in line of
battle; this captain will immediately place himself behind the centre of his company, and as soon
as the next captain shall have commanded front, he will commence the fire by file, by the
commands prescribed, school of the company. At the command fire by file, the marker at the
outer file of this first company will retire, and the other will place himself against the nearest
man of the next company. The captain of the latter will commence firing as soon as the captain
of the third company, in line, shall have commanded front; the marker before the nearest file of
the second company, in line, will now retire, and the guide before the opposite flank will place
himself before the nearest file of the third company, in line, and so on, in continuation, to the last
company on the left or right of the battalion, according as the formation may have commenced
with the right or left in front.

         529. In all the successive formations, the same principles will be observed for the
execution of the fire by file. This fire will always be executed by the command of each captain
of company.

                   3rd. Column at half distance, forward, into line of battle.

         530. If it be wished to form a column by company or division at half distance, forward
into line of battle, the colonel will first cause it to close in mass, and then deploy it on the leading
subdivision.

             4th. Column at half distance, faced to the rear, into line of battle.

         531. A column being by company at half distance, right in front, and at a halt, when the
colonel shall wish to form it into line faced to the rear, he and the lieutenant-colonel will
conform themselves to what is prescribed Nos. 500 and 501, and the colonel will then command:

   1. Into line, faced to the rear. 2. Battalion, right--FACE. 3. MARCH (or double
                                              quick--MARCH).

         532. At the first command, the captain of the leading company will cause it to face to the
right, and put it in march, causing it to wheel by file to the left, and direct its march toward the
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  68
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  69

line of battle which it will pass in rear of the left marker; the first file having passed three paces
beyond the line, the company will wheel again by file to the left, in order to place itself in rear of
the two markers; being in this position, its captain will halt it, face it to the front, and align it by
the right against the markers.

         0-533. At the same command, the chief of the first platoon column of the companies of
skirmishers will face his column to the right, and file it to the left, as prescribed in the S. C., No.
174; observing what follows, the chief of the second platoon will cause his platoon to mark time
until the left of the first has arrived abreast with his right file. The company, conducted by its
chief, will take position in rear of the first battalion company, as has been heretofore prescribed.

         534. At the second command, all the other companies will face to the right, each captain
placing himself by the side of his right guide.

         0-535. At the same command, the second platoon column will face to the right, the chiefs
and guides placing themselves as prescribed in the S. C., No. 174.

         536. At the command march, the companies will put themselves in movement; the left
guide of the second, who is nearest to the line of battle, will hasten in advance to mark that line;
he will place himself on it as prescribed above for successive formations, and thus indicate to his
captain the point at which he ought to pass the line of battle by three paces, in order to wheel by
file to the left, and then to direct his company parallelly to that line.

         537. As soon as the first file of this company shall have arrived near the left file of the
preceding one already on the line of battle, its captain will command:

               1. Second company. 2. HALT. 3. FRONT. 4. Right--DRESS.

         538. The first command will be given when the company shall yet have four paces to take
to reach the halting point.

         539. At the second command, the company will halt.
         540. At the third, the company will face to the front, and if there be openings between the
files, the latter will promptly close to the right; the captain will immediately place himself by the
side of the man on the left of the preceding company, and align himself on its front rank.
         541. The fourth command will be executed as prescribed No. 513.
         542. The following companies will be conducted and established on the line of battle, as
just prescribed for the second, each regulating itself by the one that precedes it; the left guides
will detach themselves in time to precede their respective companies on the line by twelve or
fifteen paces, and each place himself so as to be opposite to one of the three left files of his
company, when in line. If the movement be executed in double quick time, the moment it is
commenced, all the left guides will detach themselves at the same time from the column, and
will move at a run, to establish themselves on the line of battle.
         0-543. At the command march, by the colonel, the second platoon column will be put in
march; it will be filed to the left, and conducted by its chief to its position in rear of the last
battalion company, according to means prescribed, No. 533.
         544. The formation ended, the colonel will command: Guides--POSTS.
         545. The colonel and lieutenant-colonel, in this formation, will each observe what is
prescribed for him in that of on the right, into line of battle.
         546. A column, left in front, will form itself faced to the rear into line of battle according
to the same principles and by inverse means.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  70

         547. If the column be in march, and should arrive in front of the right of the line on which
it is to form into battle, the colonel and lieutenant-colonel will conform to what is prescribed,
Nos. 500 and 501.

         548. When the head of the column shall be nearly at company distance from the two
markers established on the line, the colonel will command:

1. Into line, faced to the rear. 2. Battalion, by the right flank. 3. MARCH (or double
                                              quick--MARCH).

         549. At the first command, the captains will caution their companies to face by the right
flank.

         0-550. At the same command, the chief of each platoon column will caution it to face by
the right flank.

         551. At the command march, briskly repeated by the captains of companies, all the
companies will face to the right; the first company will then wheel by file to the left, and be
directed by its captain a little to the rear of the left marker; then pass three paces beyond the line,
and wheel again by file to the left; having arrived on the line, the captain will halt the company,
and align it by the right. The remaining part of the movement will be executed as heretofore
explained.

         0-552. At the same command, each platoon column will be faced, filed to the left, and
marched into its new position as has been heretofore explained.

         553. The foregoing principles are applicable to a column, left in front, and also to a
column by division.

         554. As the subdivisions approach the line of battle, it is necessary that their chiefs
should so direct the march as to cross that line a little in rear of their respective guides, who are
faced to the basis of the formation; hence each guide ought to detach himself in time to find
himself correctly established on the direction before his subdivision shall come up with him.

                                                ARTICLE IV.

                            Deployment of columns closed in mass.

         555. A. column in mass may be formed into line of battle:
1. Faced to the front, by the deployment.
2. Faced to the rear, by the countermarch and the deployment.
3. Faced to the right and faced to the left, by a change of direction by the flank, and the

    deployment.
         556. When a column in mass, by division, arrives behind the line on which it is intended

to deploy it, the colonel will indicate, in advance, to the lieutenant-colonel, the direction of the
line of battle, as well as the point on which he may wish to direct the column. The lieutenant-
colonel will immediately detach himself with two markers, and establish them on that line, the
first at the point indicated, the second a little less than the front of a division from the first.

         557. Deployments will always be made upon lines parallel, and lines perpendicular to the
line of battle; consequently, if the head of the column be near the line of battle, the colonel will
commence by establishing the direction of the column perpendicularly to that line, if it be not
already so, by one of the means indicated No. 291 and following, or No. 366 and following. If
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  71

the column be in march, he will so direct it that it may arrive exactly behind the markers,
perpendicularly to the line of battle, and halt it at three paces from that line.

         558. The column, right in front, being halted. it is supposed that the colonel wishes to
deploy it on the first division; he will order the left general guide to go to a point on the line of
battle a little beyond that at which the left of the battalion will rest when deployed, and place
himself correctly on the prolongation of the markers established before the first division.

         559. These dispositions being made, the colonel will command:

             1. On the first division, deploy column. 2. Battalion, left--FACE.

         560. At the first command, the chief of the first division will caution it to stand fast; the
chiefs of the three other divisions will remind them that they will have to face to the left.

         0-561. At the same command the chief of each platoon column will caution it that it will
have to face to the left.

         562. At the second command, the three last divisions will face to the left; the chief of
each division will place himself by the side of its left guide, and the junior captain by the side of
the covering sergeant of the left company, who will have stepped into the front rank.

         563. At the same command, the lieutenant-colonel will place a third marker on the
alignment of the two first, opposite to one of the three left files of the right company, first
division, and then place himself on the line of battle a few paces beyond the point at which the
left of the second division will rest.

         0-564. At the same command the platoon columns will face to the left, and each chief of
platoon will place himself by the side of his guide.

         565. The colonel will then command: 3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).
         566. At this command, the chief of the first division will go to its right, and command:
Right--DRESS.
         567. At this, the division will dress up against the markers; the chief of the division, and
its junior captain, will each align the company on his left, and then command: FRONT.
         568. The three divisions, faced to the left, will put themselves in march; the left guide of
the second will direct himself parallelly to the line of battle; the left guides of the third and fourth
divisions will march abreast with the guide of the second; the guides of the third and fourth, each
preserving the prescribed distance between himself and the guide of the division which preceded
his own in the column.
         569. The chief of the second division will not follow its movement; he will see it file by
him, and when its right guide shall be abreast with him, he will command:

                              1. Second division. 2. HALT. 3. FRONT.

         570. The first command will be given when the division shall yet have seven or eight
paces to march; the second when the right guide shall be abreast with the chief of the division,
and the third immediately after the second.

         571. At the second command, the division will halt; at the third, it will face to the front,
and if there be openings between the files, the chief of the division will cause them to be
promptly closed to the right; the left guides of both companies will step upon the line of battle,
face to the right, and place themselves on the direction of the markers established before the first
division, each guide opposite to one of the three left files of his company.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  72
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  73

         572. The division having faced to the front, its chief will place himself accurately on the
line of battle, on the left of the first division; and when he shall see the guides assured on the
direction, he will command, Right--DRESS. At this, the division will be aligned by the right
in the manner indicated for the first.

         573. The third and fourth divisions will continue to march; at the command halt, given to
the second, the chief of the third will halt in his own person, place himself exactly opposite to the
guide of the second, after this division shall have faced to the front and closed its files; he will
see his division file past, and when his right guide shall be abreast with him, he will command:

                               1. Third division. 2. HALT. 3. FRONT.

         574. As soon as the division faces to the front, its chief will place himself two paces
before its centre, and command:

                    1. Third division, forward. 2. Guide right. 3. MARCH.

         575. At the third command, the division will march toward the line of battle; the right
guide will so direct himself as to arrive by the side of the man on the left of the second division,
and when the division is at three paces from the line of battle, its chief will halt it and align it by
the right.

         576. The chief of the fourth division will conform himself to what has just been
prescribed for the third.

         0-577. At the command march, by the colonel, the platoon columns will be put in
motion; the first column, conducted by its chief, will wheel by file to the left, and having
marched a distance of thirty-three paces, counting from the guide of the, first platoon, it will be
filed to the right and established in its proper position in rear of the first battalion company, the
second platoon passing in rear of the first, as indicated No. 517. The second column will be
marched obliquely forward until the right files of the platoons are abreast with the right file of
the last battalion company and thirty-three paces from it, when its chief will halt and deploy it on
its first platoon, according to the principles prescribed for deploying a battalion column.

         578. The deployment ended, the colonel will command: Guides--POSTS.
         579. At this command, the guides will resume their places in line of battle, and the
markers will retire.
         580. If the column be in march, and the colonel shall wish to deploy it on the first
division without halting the column, he will make the dispositions indicated Nos. 557 and 558,
and when the first division shall have arrived at a short distance from the line, he will command:

1. On the first division, deploy column. 2. Battalion, by the left flank. 3. MARCH (or
                                         double quick--MARCH).

         581. At the first command, the chief of the first division will caution it to remain faced to
the front and will command, First division; the other chiefs will caution their divisions to face
by the left flank.

         0-582. At the same command the chiefs of the platoon columns will caution them to face
by the left flank.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  74

         583. At the command march, given when the first division of the battalion companies is
three paces from the markers, and briskly repeated by the chiefs of the rear divisions, the chief of
the first division will command HALT, and the division will be aligned by the right against the
markers as prescribed Nos. 566 and 567; the other divisions will face to the left, their chiefs
hastening to the left of their divisions. The second division will conform its movements to what
is prescribed Nos. 569 and following. The third and fourth divisions will execute what is
prescribed No. 573 and following; but the chief of the fourth division will halt in his own person
at the command march given by the chief of the division which precedes him, and when the right
of each division arrives abreast with its chief, he will command:

             1. Such division, by the right flank--MARCH. 2. Guide--RIGHT.

         0-584. At the command march, by the colonel, each platoon column will face by the left
flank, and be conducted to, its proper place in line by the means prescribed No. 577.

         585. The lieutenant-colonel will assure the position of the guides, conforming to what is
prescribed No. 520. The senior major will follow the movement abreast with the fourth division.
The junior major will hold himself abreast with the third division.

         586. If the colonel shall wish to deploy the column without halting it, and to continue the
march, the markers will not be posted; the movement will be executed by the same commands
and the same means as the foregoing, but with the following modifications:

         587. At the first command, the chief of the first division will command, 1. Guide right.
2. Quick time. At the command MARCH (or double quick--MARCH), given by the
colonel, the first division will march in quick time and will take the touch of elbows to the right;
the captains will place themselves on the right of their respective companies.; the captain on the
right of the battalion will take points on the ground to assure the direction of the march. The
chief of the second division will allow his division to file past him, and when he sees its right
abreast of him, he will command, 1. Second division by the right flank. 2. MARCH. 3.
Guide right, and when this division shall arrive on the alignment of the first, he will cause it to
march in quick time. The third and fourth divisions will deploy according to the same principles
as the second.

         0-588. At the first command, the platoon columns will be cautioned by their chiefs as
indicated No. 582. At the command march (or double quick--MARCH), the platoons will face
by the left flank, each chief placing himself as prescribed No. 564; each platoon column will be
moved forward parallel to the line and when the right file of the first column is abreast with the
right file of the first battalion company, its chief will cause it to execute what is prescribed for
the second platoon column, No. 577, and when the company shall have attained its distance, it
will take the quick step. The second platoon column will be moved parallel to the line, and when
its right files shall arrive abreast with the right file of the last battalion company, it will be faced
by the right flank, and execute what has been prescribed for the first platoon column.

         589. The colonel will command, Guide centre, and at this the color-bearer and right
general guide will move rapidly six paces in advance of the line, the colonel will assure the
direction of the color-bearer. The lieutenant-colonel, junior major, and the right companies, will
immediately conform themselves to the principles of the march in line of battle. The senior
major, left companies, and the left general guide, as they arrive on the line, will conform
themselves to the same principles. If the column be marching in double quick time, when the last
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  75

company shall have arrived on the line, should the colonel wish to resume the double quick he
will so command.

         590. The colonel will see, pending the movement, that the principles just prescribed are
duly observed, and particularly that the divisions, in deploying, be not halted too soon nor too
late. He will correct promptly and quickly the faults that may be committed, and prevent their
propagation. This rule is general for all deployments.

         591. The column being at a halt, if instead of deploying it on the first, the colonel shall
wish to deploy it on the rearmost division, he will cause the dispositions to be made indicated
No. 556 and following; but it will be the right general guide whom he will send to place himself
beyond the point at which the right of the battalion will rest when deployed.

         592. The colonel will then command:

    1. On the fourth (or such) division, deploy column. 2. Battalion, right--FACE.

         593. At the first command, the chief of the fourth division will caution it to stand fast; the
chiefs of the other divisions will caution them that they will have to face to the right.

         0-594. At the same command, the chief of the first platoon column will caution it that it
will have to face to the right; the chief of the second platoon column will caution it that it will
have to face to the left.

         595. At the second command, the first three divisions will face to the right; and the chief
of each will place himself by the side of its right guide.

         596. At the same command, the lieutenant-colonel will place a third marker between the
first two, so that this marker may be opposite to one of the three light files of the left company of
the division; the lieutenant-colonel will then place himself on the line of battle a few paces
beyond the point at which the right of the third division will rest when deployed.

         0-597. At the same command, the first platoon column will face to the right and the
second to the left; the chief of each platoon will place himself by the side of his guide.

         598. The colonel will then command:

                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         599. At this command, the three right divisions will put themselves in march, the guide of
the first so directing himself as to pass three paces within the line marked by the right general
guide. The chief of the third division will not follow its movement; he will see it file past, halt it
when its left guide shall be abreast with him, and cause it to face to the front; and, if there be
openings between the files, he will cause them to be promptly closed to the left.

         600. The chief of the fourth division, when he sees it nearly unmasked by the three
others, will command:

                    1. Fourth division, forward. 2. Guide left. 3. MARCH.

         601. At the command march, which will be given the instant the fourth is unmasked, this
division will approach the line of battle, and when at three paces from the markers on that line,
its chief will halt it, and command: Left--DRESS.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  76

         602. At this command, the division will dress forward against the markers; the chief of
the division and the junior captain will each align the company on his right, and then command:
FRONT.

         603. The instant that the third division is unmasked, its chief will cause it to approach the
line of battle, and halt it in the manner just prescribed for the fourth.

         604. The moment the division halts, its right guide and the covering sergeant of its left
company will step on the line of battle, placing themselves on the prolongation of the markers
established in front of the fourth division; as soon as they shall be assured in their positions, the
division will be aligned as has just been prescribed for the fourth.

         605. The second and first divisions which will have continued to march, will, in
succession, be halted and aligned by the left, in the same manner as the third; the chiefs of these
divisions will conform themselves to what is prescribed No. 573. The second being near the line
of battle, the command will not be given for it to move on this line, but it will be dressed up to it.

         0-606. At the command march, by the colonel, the platoon columns will be put in
motion, the first conducted by the chiefs of platoon, will move straight-forward, the guide of the
first platoon being so directed as to pass three paces within the line marked by the right general
guide; when the column has arrived near that guide, the chief will command: 1. By the right
flank. 2. March; and having moved such distance that the first platoon is thirty paces from the
battalion line of file closers, its chief will command right about, halt. The guides will be
established on a line passing through the right guide of the first battalion company, and each
platoon dressed to the right by its chief. The column will then be deployed on its first platoon.
The second platoon column will be put in march, and conducted so, that the right files of the
platoons shall cover the right file of the last battalion company, when the column will be halted,
faced to the front, and deployed on its first platoon.

         607. The deployment ended, the colonel will command: Guides--POSTS.
         608. At this command, the chiefs of division and the guides will resume their places in
line of battle, and the markers will retire.
         609. The lieutenant-colonel will assure the positions of the guides by the means
indicated, No. 520, and the senior major will follow the movement abreast with the fourth
division. The junior major will hold himself abreast with the third division.
         610. If the column be in march, and the colonel shall wish to deploy it on the fourth
division, he will make the dispositions indicated No. 557, and following; and when the head of
the column shall arrive within a short distance of the line, he will command:

        1. On the fourth division, deploy column. 2. Battalion, by the right flank.
                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         611. At the first command, the chief of the fourth division will caution it to remain faced
to the front, and will command, Fourth division: the chiefs of the other divisions will caution
their divisions to face to the right.

         0-612. At the same command, the chiefs of the first platoon column will caution it that it
will have to face by the right flank, and the chiefs of the second platoon column will caution it
that it will have to face by the left flank.

         613. At the command march, briskly repeated by the chiefs of the first three divisions, the
chief of the fourth will command: HALT. The first three divisions will face to the right, and be
directed parallelly to the line of battle. The chief of each of these divisions will place himself by
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  77

the side of its right guide. The chief of the third division will see his division file past him, and
when his left guide is abreast of him, he will halt it, and face it to the front. The chief of the
fourth division, when he shall see it nearly unmasked, will command: 1. Fourth division,
forward; 2. Guide left; 3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH). This division will move
toward the line of battle, and when at three paces from this line, it will be halted by its chief, and
aligned by the left.

         614. The chief of the third division will move his division forward, conforming to what
has just been prescribed by the fourth.

         615. The chiefs of the second and first divisions, after halting their divisions, will
conform to what is prescribed No. 605.

         0-616. At the command march, by the colonel, the platoon columns will be moved and
established by the means prescribed Nos. 597 and 606.

         617. If the colonel should wish to deploy on the fourth division without halting the
column, and to continue to march forward, he will not have markers posted, and the movement
will be executed by the same commands and the same means, with the following modifications:
the fourth division, when unmasked, will be moved forward in quick time, and will continue to
march, instead of being halted, and will take the touch of elbows to the left. The third division,
on being unmasked, will be moved to the front in double quick time, but when it arrives on the
alignment of the fourth it will take the quick step, and dress to the left until the command Guide
centre, is given by the colonel. The chiefs of the second and first divisions will conform to what
has been prescribed for the third. When the first division shall arrive on the line, the colonel may
cause the battalion to take the double quick step.

         0-618. The platoon columns will be moved and established as has been already
prescribed, observing what follows: the first platoon column, in marching by the flank, will
incline to the right, so as to permit the first division to pass, and when that division faces by the
left flank, it will also face by the same flank, deploy on its first platoon, and shorten the step until
the proper distance is attained.

         619. The colonel and lieutenant-colonel will conform to what has been prescribed No.
589.

         620. It is not necessary that the movement be entirely completed before halting the
battalion. As soon as the part of the battalion already formed, shall have arrived on the line of
battle, the colonel will halt the battalion; the divisions not in line will each complete the
movement.

         621. To deploy the column on an interior division, the colonel will cause the line to be
traced by the means above indicated, and the general guides will move briskly on the line, as
prescribed Nos. 558 and 591. This being executed, the colonel will command:

 1. On such division, deploy column. 2. Battalion outward--FACE. 3. MARCH (or
                                         double quick--MARCH).

         622. Whether the column be with the right or left in front, the divisions which, in the
order in battle, belong to the right of the directing one, will face to the right; the others, except
the directing division, will face to the left; the divisions in front of the latter will deploy by the
means indicated No. 593 and following; those in its rear will deploy as is prescribed No. 560 and
following.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  78

         623. The directing division, the instant it finds itself unmasked, will approach the line of
battle, taking the guide left or right, according as the right or left of the column may be in front.
The chief or this division will align it by the directing flank, and then step back into the rear, in
order momentarily to give place to the chief of the next for aligning the next division.

         0-624. The platoon columns will be moved and established according to the principles
which have been already prescribed.

         625. The lieutenant-colonel will assure the positions of the guides of divisions, which, in
the line of battle take the right of the directing division, and the senior major will assure the
positions of the other guides. The junior major will hold himself abreast with the third division.

         626. If the column be in march, the colonel will command:

     1. On such division, deploy column. 2. Battalion, by the right and left flanks.
                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         627. The divisions which are in front of the directing one will deploy by the means
indicated No. 611 and following; those in rear, as prescribed No. 581 and following.

         628. The directing division, when unmasked, will conform to what is prescribed for the
fourth division, No. 613.

         0-629. The platoon columns will be moved and established according to the means
already indicated.

         630. The colonel, lieutenant-colonel, senior and .junior majors, will conform to what has
been prescribed Nos. 589 and 620.

         631. In a column, left in front, deployments will be executed according to the same
principles, and by inverse means.

   REMARKS ON THE DEPLOYMENT OF COLUMNS, CLOSED IN MASS.

         632. All the divisions ought to deploy rectangularly, to march off abreast, and to preserve
their distances toward the line of battle.

         633. Each division, the instant that it is unmasked, ought to be marched toward the line of
battle, and to be aligned upon it by the flank next to the directing division; the latter, whether the
right or left be in front, will always be aligned by the flank next to the point d'appui, when the
deployment is made on the first or last division; but if the column be deployed on an interior
division, this division will be aligned by the flank which was that of direction.

         634. The chiefs of division will see that, in deploying, the principles prescribed for
marching by the flank are well observed, and if openings between the files occur, which ought
not to happen except on broken or difficult grounds, the openings ought to be promptly closed
toward the directing flank as soon as the divisions face to the front.

         635. If a chief of division give the command halt, or the command by the right or left
flank, too soon or too late, his division will be obliged to oblique to the right or left in
approaching the line of battle, and his fault may lead the following subdivision into error.

         636. In the divisions which deploy by the left flank, it is always the left guide of each
company who ought to place himself on the line of battle, to mark the direction; in divisions
which deploy by the right flank, it is the right guide.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  79

         637. A column by company, closed in mass, may be formed to the left or to the right into
line, in the same manner as a column at half distance, and by the means indicated No. 494 and
following.

         638. A column by company, closed in mass, may be formed on the right or on the left
into line of battle, as a column at half distance; but in order to execute this movement, without
arresting the march of the column, it is necessary that the guides avoid, with the greatest care,
shortening the step in turning, and that the men near them, respectively, conform themselves
rapidly to the movements of their guides. A column by company or division, closed in mass, can
be formed into line faced to the rear, but the guide will move at double quick or a run.

                                    REMARKS ON INVERSIONS.

         639. Inversions giving frequently the means of forming line of battle, in the promptest
manner, are of great utility in the movements of an army.

         640. The application that may be made of inversions in the formations to the right and to
the left in line of battle, has been indicated No. 484 and following. They may also be
advantageously employed in the successive formations.

         641. Formations, by inversion, will be executed according to the same principles as
formations in the direct order; but the colonel's first command will always begin by inversion.

         642. The battalion being in line of battle by inversion, when the colonel shall wish, by
forming it into column, to bring it back to the direct order, he will cause it either to break or to
ploy by company, or by division, accordingly as the column may have been by company or by
division before it had been formed into line of battle by inversion.

         643. When a battalion in line of battle, formed by inversion, has to be ployed into
column, the movement will be executed according to the same principles as if the line were in
the direct order, but observing what follows.

         644. If it be intended that the column shall be by division, with the first in front, or by
company, with the first company in front, the colonel will announce in the second command ­
left in front, because the battalion being in line of battle by inversion, that subdivision is on the
left.

         645. Each chief whose subdivision takes position in the column in front of the directing
one, will conduct his subdivision till it halts; and each chief whose subdivision takes position in
rear of the directing one, will halt in his own person when up with the preceding right guide, and
see his subdivision file past; and each chief will align his subdivision by the right. When the
column is to be put in march, the second command will be ­ guide left, because the proper right
is in front.

         646. For the same reason, if it be intended that the last subdivision shall be in front, right
in front, will be announced in the second command; the subdivisions will be aligned by the left,
and to put the column in march, the second command will be, guide right, because the proper left
is in front.

         0-647. Whenever the line is formed by inversion, the companies of skirmishers will
occupy the relative positions in rear of the first and last battalion companies respectively, as
prescribed No. 489. When the column is formed, from a battalion in line by inversion, the
platoon columns will be moved, and established on the proper reverse flank.

                                                PART FIFTH.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  80
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  81

                                                  ARTICLE I.

                                     To advance in line of battle.

         648. The battalion being correctly aligned, and supposed to be the directing one, when
the colonel shall wish to march in line of battle, he will give the lieutenant-colonel an intimation
of his purpose, place himself about forty paces in rear of the color-file, and face to the front.

         649. The lieutenant-colonel will place himself a like distance in front of the same file,
and face to the colonel, who will establish him as correctly as possible, by signal of the sword,
perpendicularly to the line of battle opposite to the color-bearer. The colonel will next, above the
heads of the lieutenant-colonel and color-bearer, take a point of direction in the field beyond, if a
distinct one present itself, exactly in the prolongation of those first two points.

         650. The colonel will then move twenty paces farther to the rear, and establish two
markers on the prolongation of the straight line passing through the color-bearer and the
lieutenant-colonel; these markers will face to the rear, the first placed about twenty-five paces
behind the rear rank of the battalion, and the second at the same distance from the first.

         651. The color-bearer will be instructed to take, the moment the lien tenant-colonel shall
be established on the perpendicular, two points on the ground in the straight line which, drawn
from himself, would pass between the heels of that officer; the first of these points will be taken
at fifteen or twenty paces from the color-bearer.

         652. These dispositions being made, the colonel will command:

                                           1. Battalion, forward.

         653. At this, the front rank of the color-guard will advance six paces to the front; the
corporals in the rear rank will place themselves in the front rank, and these will be replaced by
those in the rank of file closers; at the same time the two general guides will move in advance,
abreast with the color-bearer, the one on the right, opposite to the captain of the right company,
the other opposite to the sergeant who closes the left of the battalion.

         0-654. At this the captain and covering sergeant of each of the companies of skirmishers
will place themselves as prescribed No. 482, and each captain will command: Such company
of skirmishers, forward.

         655. The captains of the left wing will shift, passing before the front rank, to the left of
their respective companies; the sergeant on the left of the battalion will step back into the rear
rank. The covering sergeant of the company next on the left of the color-company, will step into
the front rank.

         656. The lieutenant-colonel having assured the color-bearer on the line between himself
and the corporal of the color-file, now in the front rank, will go to the position which will be
hereinafter indicated, No. 665.

         657. The senior major will place himself six or eight paces on either flank of the color-
rank. The junior major will hold himself in the position prescribed No. 35, Title I.

         658. The colonel will then command:

                               2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  82

         659. At this command, the battalion will step off with life; the color-bearer, charged with
the step and direction, will scrupulously observe the length and cadence of the pace, marching on
the prolongation of the two points previously taken, and successively taking others in advance by
the means indicated in the school of the company; the corporal on his right, and the one on his
left, will march in the same step, taking care not to turn the head or shoulders, the color-bearer
supporting the color-lance against the hip.

         0-660. At the same. command, briskly repeated by their chiefs, the companies of
skirmishers will slip off, taking the guides as indicated No. 482.

         661. The two general guides will march in the same step with the color-rank, each
maintaining himself abreast, or nearly so, with that rank, and neither occupying himself with the
movement of the other.

         662. The three corporals of the color-guard, now in the front rank of the battalion, will
march well aligned, elbow to elbow, heads direct to the front, and without deranging the line of
their shoulders; the centre one will follow exactly in the trace of the color-bearer, and maintain
the same step, without lengthening or shortening it, except on an intimation from the colonel or
lieutenant-colonel, although he should find himself more or less than six paces from the color-
rank.

         663. The covering sergeant in the front rank between the color-company and the next on
the left, will march elbow to elbow, and on the same line, with the three corporals in the centre,
his head well to the front.

         664. The captains of the color-company, and the company next to the left, will constitute,
with the three corporals in the centre of the front rank, the basis of alignment for both wings of
the battalion; they will march in the same step with the color-bearer, and exert themselves to
maintain their shoulders exactly in the square with the direction. To this end, they will keep their
heads direct to the front, only occasionally casting an eye on the three centre corporals, with the
slightest possible turn of the neck, and if they perceive themselves in advance, or in rear of these
corporals, the captain, or two captains, will almost insensibly shorten or lengthen the step, so as,
at the end of several paces, to regain the true alignment, without giving sudden checks or
impulsions to the wings beyond them respectively.

         665. The lieutenant-colonel, placed twelve or fifteen paces on the right of the captain of
the color-company, will maintain this captain and the next one beyond, abreast with the three
centre corporals; to this end, he will caution either to lengthen or to shorten the step, as may be
necessary, which the captain, or two captains, will execute as has just been explained.

         666. All the other captains will maintain themselves on the prolongation of this basis;
and, to this end, they will cast their eyes toward the centre, taking care to turn the neck but
slightly, and not to derange the direction of their shoulders.

         667. The captains will observe the march of their companies, and prevent the men from
getting in advance of the line of captains; they will not lengthen or shorten step except when
evidently necessary; because, to correct, with too scrupulous attention, small faults, is apt to
cause the production of greater ­ loss of calmness, silence, and equality of step, each of which it
is so important to maintain.

         668. The men will constantly keep their heads well directed to the front, feel lightly the
elbow toward the centre, resist pressure coming from the flank, give the greatest attention to the
squareness of the shoulders, and hold themselves always very slightly behind the line of the
captains, in order never to shut out from the view of the latter the basis of alignment; they will,
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  83
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  84

from time to time, cast an eye on the color-rank, or on the general guide of the wing, in order to
march constantly in the same step with those advanced persons.

         669. Pending the march, the line, determined by two markers, will be prolonged, by
placing in proportion as the battalion advances, a third marker in the rear of the first, then the
second marker will quit his place and go a like distance in rear of the third; the first marker will,
in his turn, do the like in respect to the second, and so on, in succession, as long as the battalion
continues to advance; each marker, on shifting position, taking care to face to the rear, and to
cover accurately the two markers already established on the direction. A. staff officer, or the
quartermaster-sergeant, designated for the purpose, and who will hold himself constantly fifteen
or twenty paces facing the marker farthest from the battalion, will caution each marker when to
shift place, and assure him on the direction behind the other two.

         670. The colonel will habitually hold himself about thirty paces in rear of the centre of
his battalion, taking care not to put himself on the line of markers; if, for example, by the
slanting of the battalion, or, the indications which will be given, Nos. 680 and following, he finds
that the march of the color-bearer is not perpendicular, he will promptly command:

                                Point of directions to the right (or left).

         671. At this command, the senior major will hasten thirty or forty paces in advance of the
color-rank, halt, face to the colonel, and place himself on the direction which the latter will
indicate by signal of the sword; the corporal in the centre of the battalion will then direct himself
upon the senior major, on a caution from the colonel, advancing, to that end, the opposite
shoulder; the corporals on his right and left will conform themselves to his direction.

         672. The color-bearer will also direct himself upon the senior major, advancing the
opposite shoulder, the senior major causing him, at the same time, to incline to the right or left,
until he shall exactly cover the corporal of his file; the color-bearer will then take points on the
ground in this new direction.

         673. The two general guides will conform themselves to the new direction of the color-
rank.

         674. The officer charged with observing the successive replacing of the markers in the
rear of the centre, will establish them promptly on the new direction, taking for a basis the color-
bearer and the corporal of his file in the centre of the battalion; the colonel will verity the new
direction of the markers.

         675. The lieutenant-colonel, from the position given No. 665, will see that the two centre
companies, and successively all the others, conform themselves to the new direction of the
centre, but without precipitancy or disorder; he will then endeavor to maintain that basis of
alignment for the battalion, perpendicularly to the direction pursued by the color-bearer.

         676. He will often observe the march of the two wings; and, if he discover that the
captains neglect to conform themselves to the basis of alignment, he will recall their attention by
the command ­ Captain of (such) company, or captains of (such) companies, on the line
­ without however, endeavoring too scrupulously to correct small faults.

         677. The senior major on the flank of the color-rank will, during the march, place
himself, from time to time, twenty paces in front of that rank, face to the rear, and place himself
correctly on the prolongation of the markers established behind the centre, in order to verify the
exact march of the color-bearer on that line; he will rectify, if necessary, the direction of the
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  85
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  86

color-bearer, who will immediately take two new points on the ground between himself and the
major.

         678. All the principles applicable to the advance in line, are the same for a subordinate as
for the directing battalion; but when the battalion under instruction is supposed to be subordinate,
no markers will be placed behind its centre.

                 REMARKS ON THE ADVANCE IN LINE OF BATTLE.

         679. If, in the exercises of detail, or courses of elementary instruction, the officers,
sergeants, corporals, and men, have not been well confirmed in the principles of the position
under arms, as well as in the length and cadence of the step, the march of the battalion in line
will be floating, unsteady, and disunited.

         680. If the color-bearer, instead of marching perpendicularly forward, pursue an oblique
direction, the battalion will slant; crow dings in one wing, and openings in the other, will follow,
and these defects in the march, becoming more and more embarrassing in proportion to the
deviation from the perpendicular, will commence near the centre.

         681. It is then of the greatest importance that the color-bearer should direct himself
perpendicularly forward, and that the basis of alignment should always be perpendicular to the
line pursued by him.

         682. If openings be formed, if the files crowd each other, if, in short, disorder ensue, the
remedy ought to be applied as promptly as possible, but calmly, with few words, and as little
noise as practicable.

         683. The object of the general guides, in the march in line of battle is to indicate to the
companies near the flanks the step of the centre of the battalion, and to afford more facility in
establishing the wings on the direction of the centre if they should be too much in the rear; hence
the necessity that these guides should maintain the same step, and march abreast, or very nearly
so, with the color-rank, which it will be easy for them to do by casting from time to time an eye
on that rank.

         684. If the battalion happen to lose the step, the colonel will recall its attention by the
command, To the--STEP; captains and their companies will immediately cast an eye on the
color-rank, or one of the general guides, and promptly conform themselves to the step.

         685. Finally, it is of the utmost importance to the attainment of regularity in the march in
line of battle, to habituate the battalion to execute with as much order as promptness the
movements prescribed No. 670 and following, for rectifying the direction; it is not less essential
that commanders of battalions should exercise themselves, with the greatest care, in forming
their own coup d'æil, in order to be able to judge with precision the direction to be given to their
battalions.

                                                 ARTICLE II.

                                  Oblique march in line of battle.

         686. The battalion marching in line of battle, when the colonel shall wish to cause it to
oblique, he will command:

             1. Right (or left) oblique. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  87

         687. At the first command, the senior major will place himself in front of, and faced to
the color-bearer.

         688. At the command march, the whole battalion will take the oblique step. The
companies and captains will strictly observe the principles established in the school of the
company.

         689. The first command will be briskly repeated by the captains of the companies of
skirmishers. At, the command march they will step off, and be governed by the principles
prescribed in the school of the company.

         690. The senior major in front of the color-bearer ought to maintain the latter in a line
with the centre corporal, so that the color-bearer may oblique neither more nor less than that
corporal. He will carefully observe also that they follow parallel directions and preserve the
same length of step.

         691. The lieutenant-colonel will take care that the captains and the three corporals in the
centre keep exactly on a line and follow parallel directions.

         692. The colonel will see that the battalion preserves its parallelism; he will exert himself
to prevent the files from opening or crowding. If he perceive the latter fault, he will cause the
files on the flank, to which the battalion obliques, to open out.

         693. The colonel, wishing the direct march to be resumed, will command:

                                         1. Forward. 2. MARCH.

         694. At the command march, the battalion will resume the direct march. The senior
major will place himself thirty paces in front of the color-bearer, and face to the colonel, who
will establish him, by a signal of the sword, on the direction which the color-bearer ought to
pursue. The latter will immediately take two points on the ground between himself and the
senior major.

         695. In resuming the direct march, care will be taken that the men do not close the
intervals which may exist between the files at once; it should be done almost insensibly.

                                  Remarks on the oblique march.

         696. The object of the oblique step is to gain ground to the right or left, preserving all the
while the primitive direction of the line of battle.

         697. It is then essential that the corporals in the centre of the battalion, and the captains of
companies, should follow parallel directions, and maintain themselves at the same height;
without which they will give a false direction to the battalion.

         698. The colonel and lieutenant-colonel will exert themselves to prevent the files from
crowding; for, without such precaution the oblique march cannot be executed with facility.

                                                ARTICLE III.

         To halt the battalion, marching in line of battle, and to align it.

         699. The battalion, marching in the line of battle, when the colonel shall wish to halt it,
he will command:
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  88
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  89

                                           1. Battalion. 2. HALT.

         700. At the second command, the battalion will halt; the color-rank and the general
guides will remain in front; but if the colonel should not wish immediately to resume the advance
in line, nor to give a general alignment, he will command:

                                  Color and general guides--POSTS.

         701. At this command, the color-rank and general guides win retake their places in line of
battle, the captains in the left wing will shift to the right of their companies.

         702. If the colonel should then judge it necessary to rectify the alignment, he will
command:

                                    Captains, rectify the alignment.

         703. The captains will immediately cast an eye toward the centre, align themselves
accurately on the basis of the alignment, which the lieutenant-colonel will see well directed, and
then promptly dress their respective companies. The lieutenant-colonel will admonish such
captains as may not be accurately on the alignment, by the command: Captains of (such)
company, or captains of (such) companies, move up or fall back.

         704. But when the colonel shall wish to give the battalion a general alignment, either
parallel or oblique, instead of rectifying it as above, he will move some paces outside of one of
the general guides (the right will here be supposed) and caution the right general guide and the
color-bearer to face him, and then establish them by signal of the sword, on the direction which
he may wish to give to the battalion. As soon as they shall be correctly established, the left
general guide will place himself on their direction, and be assured in his position by the senior
major. The color-bearer will carry the color-lance perpendicularly between his eyes, and the two
corporals of his rank will return to their places in the front rank the moment he shall face to the
colonel.

         705. This disposition being made, the colonel will command:

                                        1. Guides--ON THE LINE.

         706. At this command, the right guide of each company in the right wing, and the left
guide of each company in the left, will each place himself on the direction of the color-bearer
and the two general guides, face to the color-bearer, place himself in rear of the guide who is
next before him at a distance equal to the front of his company, and align himself upon the color-
bearer and the general guide beyond.

         707. The captains in the right wing will shift to the left of their companies, except the
captain of the color-company, who will remain on its right, but step into the rear rank; the
captains in the left wing will shift to the right of their companies.

         708. The lieutenant-colonel will promptly rectify, if necessary, the positions of the guides
of the right wing, and the senior major those of the other; which being executed, the colonel will
command:

                                        2. On the centre--DRESS.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  90
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  91

         709. At this command, the companies will move up in quick time against the guides,
where, having arrived, each captain will align his company according to prescribed principles,
the lieutenant-colonel aligning the color-company.

         710. If the alignment be oblique, the captains will take care to conform their companies
to it in conducting them toward the line.

         711. The battalion being aligned, the colonel will command:

                                      3. Color and guides--POSTS.

         712. At this command, the color-bearer, the general and company guides, and the
captains in the right wing, will take their places in the line of battle, and the color-bearer will
replace the heel of the color-lance against the right hip.

         713. If the new direction of the line of battle be such that one or more companies find
themselves in advance of that line, the colonel, before establishing the general guides on the line,
will cause such companies to be moved to the rear, either by the back step, or by first facing
about, according as there may be less or more ground to be repassed to bring the companies in
rear of the new direction.

         714. When the colonel shall wish to give a general alignment, and the color and general
guides are not on the line, he will cause them to move out by the command:

                           1. Color and general guides--ON THE LINE.

         715. At this command, the color-bearer and the general guides will place themselves on
the line, conforming to what is prescribed No. 704.

         0-716. In the alignments, the companies of skirmishers will conform to the movements of
the first and last battalion companies respectively, and preserve their relative positions to them.

                                                ARTICLE IV.

                    Change of direction in marching in line of battle.

         717. The battalion marching in line of battle, when the colonel shall wish to change
direction to the right, he will command:

        1. Change direction to the right. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         718. At the command march, the movement will commence; the color-rank will shorten
the step to fourteen or seventeen inches, and direct itself circularly to the right, taking care to
advance the left shoulder, but only insensibly; the senior major will place himself before the
color-bearer, facing him, and so direct his march that he may describe an arc of a circle neither
too large nor too small; he will also see that the color-bearer takes steps of fourteen or seventeen
inches, according to the gait.

         719. The right general guide will wheel on the right captain of the battalion as his pivot;
the left general guide will circularly march in the step of twenty-eight inches or thirty-three
inches, according to the gait, and will align himself upon the color-bearer and the right general
guide.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  92

         720. The corporal placed in the centre of the battalion, will take steps of fourteen or
seventeen inches, and will wheel to the right by advancing insensibly the left shoulder; the
battalion will conform itself to the movement. of the centre; to this end, the captain of the color-
company, and the captain of the next to the left, will attentively regulate their march, as well as
the direction of their shoulders, on the three centre corporals. All the other captains will regulate
the direction of their shoulders and the length of their step on this basis.

         721. The men will redouble their attention in order not to pass the line of captains.
         722. In the left wing, the pace will be lengthened in proportion as the file is distant from
the centre; the captain of the eighth company who closes the left flank of the battalion will take
steps of twenty-eight or thirty-three inches, according to the gait.
         723. In the right wing the pace will be shortened in proportion as the file is distant from
the centre; the captain who closes the right flank will only slowly turn in his person, observing to
yield ground a little if pushed.
         724. The colonel will take great care to prevent the centre of the battalion from describing
an arc of a circle, either too great or too small, in order that the wings may conform themselves
to its movement. He will see also that the captains keep their companies constantly aligned upon
the centre, so that there may be no opening and no crowding of files. He will endeavor to
prevent faults, and, should they occur, correct them without noise.
         725. The lieutenant-colonel, placed before the battalion, will give his attention to the
same objects.
         726. When the colonel shall wish the direct march to be resumed, he will command:

                                         1. Forward. 2. MARCH.

         727. At the command march, the color-rank, the general guides and the battalion, will
resume the direct march; the senior major will immediately place himself thirty or forty paces in
front, face to the colonel, placed in rear of the centre, who will establish him by signal of the
sword on the perpendicular direction which the corporal in the centre of the battalion ought to
pursue; the senior major will immediately cause the color-bearer, if necessary, to incline to the
right or left, so as to be exactly opposite to his file; the color-bearer will then take two points on
the ground between himself and the major.

         728. The lieutenant-colonel will endeavor to give too the color-company find the next on
the left a direction perpendicular to that pursued by the centre corporal; and all the other
companies, without precipitancy, will conform themselves to that basis.

         0-729. In changing direction, the companies of skirmishers will execute what is
prescribed No. 722.

                                                 ARTICLE V.

                              To march in retreat, in line of battle.

         730. The battalion being halted, if it be the wish of the colonel to cause it to march in
retreat, he will command:

                          1. Face to the rear. 2. Battalion, about--FACE.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  93

         731. At the first command the color-rank and general guides, if in advance, will take their
places in line. At the second command the battalion will face about, the color-bearer will pass
into the rear rank, now leading; the corporal of his file will step behind the corporal next on his
own right, to let the color-bearer pass, and then step into the front rank, now rear, to re-form the
color-file; the colonel will place himself behind the front rank, become the rear; the lieutenant-
colonel and senior major will place themselves before the rear rank, now leading.

         732. At the second command the companies of skirmishers will face about with the
battalion.

         733. The colonel will take post forty paces behind the color-file, in order to assure the
lieutenant-colonel on the perpendicular, who will place himself at a like distance in front, as
prescribed for the advance in line of battle.

         734. If the battalion be the one charged with the direction, the colonel will establish
markers in the manner indicated No. 650, except that they will face to the battalion. If the
markers be already established, the officer charged with replacing them in succession will cause
them to face about, the moment that the battalion executes this movement, and then the marker
nearest to the battalion will hasten to the rear of the two others.

         735. These dispositions being made, the colonel will command:

                                           3. Battalion, forward.

         736. At this command, the color-bearer will advance six paces beyond the rank of file
closers, accompanied by the two corporals of his guard of that rank, the centre corporal stepping
back to let the color-bearer pass; the corporal of the color-file in the front-rank, now rear, will
replace the color-bearer when the latter steps out, the two file closers nearest this centre corporal
will unite on him behind the color-guard to serve as a basis of alignment for the line of file
closers; the two general guides will place themselves abreast with the color-rank, the covering
sergeants will place themselves in the line of file closers, and the captains in the rear rank, now
leading; the captains in the left wing, now right, will, if not already there, shift to the left of their
companies, now become the right.

         737. The colonel will then command:

                               4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         738. The battalion will march in retreat on the same principles which govern the advance
in line: the centre corporal behind the color-bearer will march exactly in his trace.

         739. If it be the directing battalion, the color-bearer will direct himself on the markers,
who will of their own accord, each place himself in succession behind the marker most distant,
on being approached by the battalion; the officer charged with the superintendence of the
markers will carefully assure them on the direction.

         740. In the case of a subordinate battalion, the color-bearer will maintain himself on the
perpendicular by means of points taken on the ground.

         0-741. At the fourth command by the colonel, the companies of skirmishers will march to
the rear, retaining their relative positions with reference to the first and last battalion companies.

         742. The colonel, lieutenant-colonel, senior and junior majors will each discharge the
same functions as in the advance in line.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  94

         743. The lieutenant-colonel, placed on the outside of the file closers of the color
company, will also maintain the three file closers of the basis of alignment in a square with the
line of direction: the other file closers will keep themselves aligned on this basis.

                                                ARTICLE VI.

     To halt the battalion, marching in retreat, and to face it to the front.

         744. The colonel having halted the battalion, and wishing to face it to the front, will
command:

                         1. Face to the front. 2. Battalion, about--FACE.

         745. At the second command, the color-rank, general guides, captains, and covering
sergeants, will all retake their habitual places in line of battle, and the color-bearer will repass
into the front rank.

         0-746. At the second command the companies of skirmishers will face about with the
battalion.

         747. The battalion marching in line of battle by the front rank, when the colonel shall
wish to march it in retreat, he will command:

                                1. Battalion, right about. 2. MARCH.

         748. At the command march, the battalion will face to the rear and move off at the same
gait by the rear rank. The principles prescribed Nos. 736 and following will be carefully
observed.

         749. If the colonel should wish the battalion to march again by the front, he will give the
same commands.

         0-750. At the command march, the companies of skirmishers will come to the right about
with the battalion, taking care to preserve their relative positions with regard to the battalion
companies.

                                                ARTICLE VII.

                         Change of direction in marching in retreat.

         751. A battalion retiring in line will change direction by the commands and means
indicated No. 717 and following; the three file closers, united behind the color-rank, will
conform themselves to the movement of this rank and wheel like it; the centre file closer of the
three will take steps of fourteen or seventeen inches, according to the gait, and keep himself
steadily at the same distance from the color-bearer; the line of file closers will conform
themselves to the movements of its centre, and the lieutenant-colonel will maintain it on that
basis.

         0-752. The companies of skirmishers, when the battalion changes direction, will conform
to the movements of the first and last battalion companies.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  95
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  96

                                               ARTICLE VIII.

                     Passage of obstacles, advancing and retreating.

         753. The battalion advancing in line will be supposed to encounter an obstacle which
covers one or more companies; the colonel will cause them to ploy into column closed in mass,
in rear of the next company toward the color, which will be executed in the following manner. It
win be supposed that the obstacle only covers the third company, the colonel will command:

                                         Third company, obstacle.

         754. At this command, the captain of the third company will place himself in its front, to
turn it, and command: 1. Third company, by the left flank, to the rear into column. 2.
Double quick. 3. MARCH. He will then hasten to the left of his company.

         755. At the command march, the company will face to the left in marching; the two left
files will promptly disengage to the rear in double quick time; the left guide, placing himself at
the head of the front rank, will conduct it behind the fourth company, directing himself parallelly
with this company; the captain of the third will himself halt opposite to the captain of the fourth,
and see his company file past; when its right file shall be nearly up with him, he will command:
1. Third company. 2. By the right flank. 3. MARCH. 4. Guide right, and place himself
before the centre of his company.

         756. At the command march, the company will face to the right, preserving the same gait;
but the moment it shall be at the prescribed distance, its captain will command: 1. Quick time.
2. MARCH.

         757. This company will thus follow in column that behind which it finds itself, and in
close order, its right guide marching exactly in the trace of the captain of that company.

         758. As soon as the third company shall have faced to the left, the left guide of the second
will place himself on the left of the front rank of his company, and maintain between himself and
the right of the fourth, the space necessary for the return into line of the third.

         759. The obstacle being passed, the colonel will command: Third company into line.
         760. At this command the captain, turning to his company, will add: 1. Company, by
the right flank. 2. Double quick. 3. MARCH.
         761. At the command march, the company will take the double quick step, the captain
will hasten to the right of his company, halt in his own person; the company, conducted by its
guide, will file past its captain parallel to the line, and when the left file has arrived abreast with
him, the captain will command: 1. By the left flank. 2. MARCH. 3. Guide left.
         762. At the command march, the company will direct itself straight-forward toward the
line of battle, and retake its position in it according to the principles prescribed for deploying into
line of battle while marching.
         763. It will be supposed that the obstacle covers several contiguous companies (the three
companies on the right for example), the colonel will command:

   1. Three right companies, obstacle. 2. By the left flank, to the rear, into column.
                                        3. Double quick--MARCH.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  97
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  98

         764. At the first command, the captains of the designated companies will each place
himself before the centre of his company, and caution it as to the movement about to be
executed.

         0-765. At the same command, the captain of the first company of skirmishers will caution
his company to face by the left flank.

         766. At the command march, the designated companies will face to the left in marching,
and immediately take the double quick step; each captain will cause the head of his company to
disengage itself to the rear, and the left guide will place himself at the head of the front rank; the
captain of the third company will conform himself to what is prescribed No. 755, and following:
the captains of the other companies will conduct them by the flank in rear of the third, inclining
toward the head of the column; and, as the head of each company arrives opposite to the right of
the one next before it in column, its captain will himself halt, see his company file past, and
conform himself for facing it to the front, in marching, to what is prescribed No. 755 and
following.

         0-767. At the same command, the first company of skirmishers will face by the left flank,
and take the double quick step: the left guide will place himself on the left of the front rank, and
the company, conducted by its chief, will follow the movement of the first battalion company,
taking care to preserve its distance, and maintain its relative position.

         768. When the last company in column shall have passed the obstacle, the colonel will
command:

                                   1. Three right companies into line.

         769. At this command, the captain of each of these three companies will command,
company by the right flank. The colonel will then add:

                                      1. Double quick. 2. MARCH.

         770. At this, briskly repeated by the captains of the three companies, each company will
conform itself to what is prescribed No. 761 and following. The captains of the second and first
companies, respectively, halting in their own persons when the third and second face by the left
flank.

         0-771. At the same command, the first company of skirmishers will face by the right
flank, take the double quick step, and follow the movements of the first battalion company,
preserving its distance and position.

         772. It is supposed, in the foregoing examples, that the companies belonged to the right
wing; if they make part of the other, they will execute the passage of an obstacle according to the
same principles and by inverse means.

         773. When flank companies are broken off to pass an obstacle, the general guide on that
flank will place himself six paces in front of the outer file of the nearest company to him
remaining in line.

         774. In the preceding movements, it has been supposed that the battalion was marching in
quick time, but if it be marching in double quick time, and the colonel shall wish to cause several
contiguous companies to break to the rear, he will first order the battalion to march in quick time;
the companies will break as indicated No. 763.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  99

         775. When the movement is completed, the colonel may order the double quick step to be
resumed. He will also cause the battalion to march in quick time when he shall wish to bring
into line the several companies which are to the rear in column; the movement will be executed
as previously indicated; and when the last company shall have nearly completed its movement,
the colonel may cause the double quick step to be resumed.

         776. In the movement of a single company, or of several companies not contiguous to
each other, the battalion will continue to march in double quick time, but in these cases the
companies which are to ploy in column, or re-enter the line, will increase the gait.

         777. If the colonel wishes to charge bayonet while advancing in line, he will previously
order the color and general guides to their posts.

         778. In the march in retreat, these several movements will be executed on the same
principles as if the battalion marched by the front rank.

         0-779. If in marching in retreat the first and last battalion companies ate broken off to
pass an obstacle, the companies of skirmishers will be faced by the right and left flanks
respectively, and take such position as to be covered by the same battalion companies that the
first or last battalion company cover respectively. When the first and last battalion companies
come into line the companies of skirmishers will be faced by the flank, and resume their proper
position. In performing this movement the captain of each of the companies of skirmishers will
take care to incline the head of his company well to the front, and to quicken the pace so the
distances may not be lost.

         780. When a battalion, advancing in line of battle, shall be obliged to execute the right
about in order to retreat, if there be companies in column behind the rear rank, these companies
will also execute the right about, put themselves in march at the same time with the battalion,
and will thus precede it in the retreat.

         781. If the battalion be marching in retreat in double quick time, and the colonel should
desire to bring into line the companies which may be marching before the rear rank of the
battalion, he will cause the battalion to take the quick step, he will then cause those companies to
take full distance by the head of the column. The companies marching before the rear rank will
then be brought successively into line as the ground will permit, whatever may be the gait of the
battalion.

         782. When the color-company shall be obliged to execute the movement of passing an
obstacle, the color-rank will return into line at the moment the company shall face to the left or
right; the senior major will place himself six paces before the extremity of the company behind
which the color-company marches in column, in order to give the step and the direction; he
himself first taking the step from the battalion.

         783. As soon as the color-company shall have returned into line, the front rank of the
color-guard will again move out six paces in front of the battalion, and take the step from the
senior major; the latter will immediately place himself twenty or thirty paces in front of the
color-bearer, and face to the colonel placed behind the centre of the battalion, who will establish
him on the perpendicular; and, as soon as he shall be assured on it, the color-bearer will instantly
take two points on the ground between himself and the senior major.

         784. It is prescribed, as a general rule, that the companies of the right wing ought to
execute the movement of passing obstacles by the left flank, and the reverse for the companies of
the other wing; but if the obstacle cover at once several companies of the centre, each will file
into column behind that, still in line, and of the same wing, which may be the nearest to it.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  100

           REMARKS ON THE DISPOSITION OF THE COMPANIES OF
        SKIRMISHERS, AND OF THE BATTALION COMPANIES, WHEN

                                         DEPLOYED AS SUCH.

         785. When one or more platoons of the companies of skirmishers are deployed, and the
colonel wishes to recall them, he will indicate his intention to the junior major, or other
commandant of the line, who will either cause the rally on the battalion to be sounded or will
command:

                                           Rally on the battalion.

         786. At this sound, or command, the skirmishers and reserves will rapidly unmask the
front of the battalion, directing themselves in a run around its nearest flank: each company will
immediately be formed in close column, by platoon in rear of the first and last battalion
companies respectively, or behind any shelter whatever in the vicinity that may offer. The
companies of skirmishers will not be engaged in the fire of the line; but, in case the enemy are
broken by the fire, they will be prepared for a rapid pursuit. They will also cover the battalion
when in retreat, unless the colonel should desire to face it about and open the fire of the line.

         787. When any of the battalion companies acting as skirmishers are rallied on the
battalion in line, they will direct themselves around the nearest flank, as prescribed above, and
form in the rear: they will then immediately take their proper places in the line.

                                                ARTICLE IX.

                  To pass a defile, in retreat, by the right or left flank.

         788. When a battalion, retiring in line, shall encounter a defile which it must pass, the
colonel will halt the battalion, and face it to the front.

         789. It will be supposed that the defile is in rear of the left flank, and that its width is
sufficient to give passage to a column by platoon; the colonel will place a marker fifteen or
twenty paces in rear of the file-closers at the point around which the subdivisions will have to
change direction in order to enter the defile; he will then command:

                           To the rear, by the right flank, pass the defile.

         790. The captain of the first company will immediately command:

        1. First company, right--FACE. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         791. At the command march, the first company will commence the movement; the first
file will wheel to the right, march to the rear till it shall have passed four paces beyond the file
closers, when it will wheel again to the right, and then direct itself straight-forward toward the
left flank. All the other files of this company will come to wheel in succession at the same place
where the first had wheeled.

         792. The second company will execute, in its turn, the same movement, by the commands
of its captain, who will give the command MARCH, so that the first file of his company may
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  101
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  102

immediately follow the last of the first, without constraint, however, as to taking the step of the
first; the first file of the second company will wheel to the right, on its ground; all the other files
of this company will come in succession to wheel at the same place. The following companies
will execute, each in its turn, what has just been prescribed for the second.

         793. When the whole of the second company shall be on the same direction with the first,
the captain of the first will cause it to form, by platoon, into line, and the moment that it is in
column, the guide of the first platoon will direct himself on the marker around whom he has to
change direction in order to enter the defile.

         794. The second company will continue to march by the flank, directing itself parallelly
with the line of battle; and it, in its turn, will form by platoon into line, when the third company
shall be wholly on the same direction with itself.

         795. The following companies will successively execute what has just been prescribed
for the second, and each will form by platoon into line, when the next company shall be on the
same direction with itself.

         796. The first platoon of the leading company having arrived opposite to the marker
placed at the entrance of the defile, will turn to the left, and the following platoons will all
execute this movement at the same point. As the last companies will not be able to form
platoons before reaching the defile, they will so direct themselves, in entering it, as to leave room
to the left for this movement.

         797. The battalion will thus pass the defile by platoon; and, as the two platoons of each
company shall clear it, companies will be successively formed by the means indicated, S. C., No.
278, and following,

         798. The head of the column having cleared the defile, and having reached the distance at
which the colonel wishes to reform line faced to the defile, he may cause the leading company to
turn to the left, to prolong the column in that direction, and then form it to the left into line of
battle; or he may halt the column, and form it into line of battle faced to the rear, either direct or
by inversion.

         799. If it be the intention of the colonel to commence the fire before the whole column is
disengaged from the defile, he may cause the leading company, when it has formed to change
direction to the right, and then form on the right into line; or, that company may change direction
to the left, and then the formation will be on the left into line by inversion.

         800. If the defile be in the rear of the right flank, it will be passed by the left; the
movement will be executed according to the same principles, and by in verse means.

         801. If the defile be too narrow to receive the front of a platoon, it will be passed by the
flank. Captains and file closers will be watchful that the files do not Jose their distances in
marching. Companies or platoons will be formed into line as the width of the defile may permit,
or as the companies shall successively clear it.

           REMARKS ON THE DISPOSITION OF THE COMPANIES OF
                           SKIRMISHERS, IN PASSING A DEFILE.

         802. If the companies of skirmishers are in rear of the battalion in line, at the first
command by the colonel for passing the defile, they will be put in motion, and accompanied by
the junior major, will immediately pass the defile either by platoon or by file, according to the
width, the company nearest to the defile passing first: they will under the direction of the junior
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  103

major, take such positions as may best protect the passage of the defile by the battalion
companies.

         803. If the companies of skirmishers, or a portion of them, are deployed to cover the
retreat, and the colonel desires to open the fire of the line previous to passing the defile, he will,
before commencing the movement, cause the skirmishers to be rallied on the battalion, when
they will immediately pass the defile.

         804. If the colonel does not wish to open the fire by line previous to passing the defile,
the companies of skirmishers will cover the passage of the battalion companies before passing
themselves.

                                                 ARTICLE X.

                                         To march by the flank.

         805. The colonel, wishing the battalion to march by the flank, will command:

 1. Battalion. 2. Right (or left)--FACE. 3. Forward. 4. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).

         806. At the second command, the captains and covering sergeants will place themselves
as prescribed in the S. C., Nos. 138 and 143.

         0-807. At the same command, the companies of skirmishers will face to the right or left,
and the chiefs will place themselves as above indicated.

         808. The sergeant on the left of the battalion will place himself to the left, and by the side
of the last file of his company, covering the captains in file.

         809. The battalion having to face by the left flank, the captains, at the second command,
will shift rapidly to the left of their companies, and each place himself by the side of the covering
sergeant of the company preceding his own, except the captain of the left company, who will
place himself by the side of the sergeant on the left of the battalion. The covering sergeant of the
right company will place himself by the right side of the front-rank man of the rearmost file of
his company, covering the captains in file.

         810. At the command march, the battalion will step off with life; the sergeant, placed
before the leading file (right or left in front), will be careful to preserve exactly the length and
cadence of the step, and to direct himself straight-forward; to this end, he will take points on the
ground.

         811. At the same command, the companies of skirmishers will step off, the chiefs abreast
with the captains of the first and last battalion companies respectively, and they will march
parallel to them.

         812. Whether the battalion march by the right or left flank, the lieutenant-colonel will
place himself abreast with the leading file, and the senior major abreast with the color-file, both
on the side of the front rank, and about six paces from it. The junior major will hold himself as
prescribed No. 94.

         813. The adjutant, placed between the lieutenant-colonel and the front rank, will march in
the same step with the head of the battalion, and the sergeant major, placed between the senior
major and the color-bearer, will march in the same step with the adjutant.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  104

         814. The captains and file closers will carefully see that the files neither open out, nor
close too much, and that they regain insensibly their distances, if lost.

         815. The colonel wishing the battalion to wheel by file, will command:

                                  1. By file right (or left). 2. MARCH.
         816. The files will wheel in succession, and all at the place where the first had wheeled,
in conforming to the principles prescribed in the school of the company.
         817. The battalion marching by the flank when the colonel shall wish it to halt, he will
command:

                                  1. Battalion. 2. HALT. 3. FRONT.

         818. These commands will be executed as prescribed in the S. C., No. 148.
         819. If the battalion be marching by the flank, and the colonel should wish to cause it to
march in line, either to the front or to the rear, the movements will be executed by the commands
and means prescribed in the school of the company.

                                                ARTICLE XI.

      To form the battalion on the right or left, by file, into line of battle.

         820. The battalion marching by the right flank, when the colonel shall wish to form it on
the right by file, he will determine the line of battle, and the lieutenant-colonel will place two
markers on that line, in conformity with what is prescribed No. 501.

         821. The head of the battalion being nearly up with the first marker, the colonel will
command:

        1. On the right, by file, into line. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         822. At the command march, the leading company will form itself on the right, by file,
into line of battle, as indicated in the S. C., No. 151; the front-rank man of the first file will rest
his breast lightly against the right arm of the first marker; the other companies will follow the
movement of the leading company; each captain will place himself on the line at the same time
with the front-rank man of his first file, and on the right of this man,

         823. The left guide of each company, except the leading one, will place himself on the
direction of the markers, and opposite to the left file of his company, at the insta nt that the front-
rank man of this file arrives on the line.

         824. The formation being ended, the colonel will command: Guides--POSTS.
         825. The colonel will superintend the successive formation of the battalion, moving along
the front of the line of battle.
         826. The lieutenant-colonel will, in succession, assure the direction of the guides, and see
that the men of the front rank, in placing themselves on the line, do not pass it.
         827. If the battalion march by the left flank, the movement will be executed according to
the same principles, and by inverse means.

                                                  REMARKS.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  105
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  106

         828. As marching by the flank in the presence of the enemy is a very objectionable
movement, it will not be executed except for the purpose of moving the battalion to the right or
left for a short distance, or when the narrowness of the way will not permit a company front.

         0-829. If the companies of skirmishers are present with the battalion when marching by
the flank, and the colonel wishes either to file to the right or left, or to form on the right or left
into line by file, he will, previous to commencing the movement, cause those companies formed
as the battalion companies, to take post on the right and left of the battalion respectively.

                                                ARTICLE XII.

                                         CHANGES OF FRONT.

                          Change of front perpendicularly forward.

         830. The battalion being in line of battle, it is supposed to be the wish of the colonel to
cause a change of front forward on the right company, and that the angle formed by the old and
new positions be a right angle, or a few degrees more or less than one; he will cause two markers
to be placed on the new direction, before the position to be occupied by that company, and order
its captain to establish it against the markers.

         831. The captain of the right company will immediately direct it upon the markers by a
wheel to the right on the fixed pivot; and after having halted it, he will align it by the right.

         832. These dispositions being made, the colonel will command:

      1. Change front forward on first company. 2. By company, right half wheel.
                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         833. At the first command, each captain will place himself before the centre of his
company.

         0-834. At the same command, the captain of the first company of skirmishers will face
his company to the left, the left guide will step in front of the front-rank man of the left file, and
the captain will place himself by the side of his guide; the captain of the second company will
caution it to march straight-forward.

         835. At the third, each company will wheel to the right on the fixed pivot, as prescribed
in the S. C., No. 189; the left guide of each will place himself on its left as soon as he shall be
able to pass; and when the colonel shall judge that the companies have sufficiently wheeled, he
will command:

                              4. Forward. 5. MARCH. 6. Guide right.

         836. At the fifth command, the companies ceasing to wheel will march straight-forward;
at the sixth, the men will touch elbows toward the right.

         837. The right guide of the second company will march straight-forward until this
company shall arrive at the point where it should turn to the right; each succeeding right guide
will follow the file immediately before him at the cessation of the wheel, and will march in the
trace of this file until this company shall turn to the right to move upon the line; this guide will
then march straight-forward.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  107

         838. The second company having arrived opposite to the left file of the first, its captain
will cause it to turn to the right; the right guide will direct himself so as to arrive squarely upon
the line of battle, and when he shall be at three paces from that line, the captain will command:

                                      1. Second company. 2. HALT.

         839. At the second command, the company will halt; the files not yet in line with the
guide will come into it promptly, the left guide will place himself on the line of battle, and as
soon as he is assured in the direction by the lieutenant-colonel, the captain will align the
company by the right.

         840. Each following company will conform to what has just been prescribed for the
second.

         0-841. At the third command by the colonel, the first company of skirmishers will step
off, and be conducted by its captain in such manner that when the leading file arrives abreast
with the right file of the first battalion company, it will be at a distance of thirty paces from the
file-closers of that company; after prolonging itself its full length in a direction parallel to the
first battalion company, it will be halted, faced to the front, and dressed to the right by its chief.
The second company will be marched straight-forward a distance of thirty-three paces, the
captain will then cause it to execute what has been prescribed, Nos. 835, 836, and 837, observing
what follows: the company will be halted, and dressed to the right the moment it turns to the
right.

         842. The formation ended, the colonel will command: Guides--POSTS.
         843. If the battalion be in march, and the colonel shall wish to change front forward on
the first company, and that the angle formed by the old and new positions be a right angle, he
will cause two markers to be placed on the new direction, before the position to be occupied by
that company, and will command:

      1. Change front forward on first company. 2. By company, right half wheel.
                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         844. At the first command, the captains will move rapidly before the centre of their
respective companies; tile captain of the first company will command: 1. Right turn; 2. Quick
time; the captains of the other companies will caution them to wheel to the right.

         0-845. At the same command, the captain of the first company of skirmishers will
command: Company by the left flank; the captain of the second company will caution it that
it will have to move straight-forward.

         846. At the command march, the first battalion company will turn to the right, according
to the principles prescribed in the S. S., No. 415; its captain will halt it at three paces from the
markers, and the files in rear will promptly come into line. The captain will align the company
by the right.

         847. Each of the other companies will wheel to the right on a fixed pivot; the left guides
will place themselves on the left of their respective companies, and when the colonel shall judge
they have wheeled sufficiently, he will command:

                              4. Forward. 5. MARCH. 6. Guide right.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  108

         848. These commands will be executed as indicated No. 833 and following.
         849. At the third command by the colonel, briskly repeated by the chiefs of the
companies of skirmishers, the first company will execute what has been prescribed Nos. 834 and
841, and the second company what has been prescribed No. 841.
         850. The colonel will cause the battalion to change front forward on the eighth company,
according to the same principles and by inverse means.
         0-851. The companies of skirmishers will execute this movement according to the same
principles prescribed for them when changing front on the first battalion company, and by
inverse means.

                        Change of front perpendicularly to the rear.

         852. The colonel, wishing to change front to the rear on the right company, will impart
his purpose to the captain of this company. The latter will immediately face his company about,
wheel it to the left on the fixed pivot, and halt it when it shall be in the direction indicated to him
by the colonel; the captain will then face his company to the front, and align it by the right
against the two markers, whom the colonel will cause to be established before the right and left
files.

         0-853. At the same time the captain of the first company of skirmishers will face it to the
right, march it forward the distance of thirty-three paces, file it to the left, and establish it in rear
of the first battalion company.

         854. These dispositions being made, the colonel will command:

   1. Change front to the rear, on first company. 2. Battalion, about--FACE. 3. By
             company, left half wheel. 4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         855. At the second command, fill the companies, except the right, will face about.
         0-856. At the second command, the second company of skirmishers will face about.
         857. At the third, the captains whose companies have faced about, will each place himself
behind the centre of his company, two paces from the front rank, now the rear.
         0-858. At the same command, the captain of the second company of skirmishers will
place himself as above indicated for the captains of the battalion companies.
         859. At the fourth, these companies will wheel to the left on the fixed pivot by the rear
rank; the left guide of each will, as soon as he is able to pass, place himself on the left of the rear
rank of his company, now become the right; and when the colonel shall judge that the companies
have sufficiently wheeled, he will command:

                                5. Forward. 6. MARCH. 7. Guide left.

         860. At the sixth command, the companies will cease to wheel, march straight-forward
toward the new line of battle, and, at the seventh, take the touch of the elbow toward the left.

         861. The guide of each company on its right flank becomes left, will conform himself to
the principles prescribed No. 837.

         862. The second company, from the right, having arrived opposite to the left of the first,
will turn to the left; the guide will so direct himself as to arrive parallelly with the line of battle,
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  109

cross that line, and when the front rank, now in the rear, shall be three paces beyond it, the
captain will command: 1. Second company; 2. HALT.

         863. At the second command, the company will halt; the files which may not yet be in
line with the guide, will promptly come into it; the captain will cause the company to face about,
and then align it by the right.

         864. All the other companies will execute what has just been prescribed for the second,
each as it successively arrives opposite to the left of the company that precedes it on the new line
of battle.

         0-865. At the fourth command by the colonel, the second company of skirmishers will
execute what has been prescribed for the battalion companies, Nos. 859 and 860, and when its
left file shall have arrived in a perpendicular with the left of the seventh battalion company, it
will turn to the left, and having crossed the line the distance of thirty-three paces, it will be
halted, faced about, and dressed to the right by its chief.

         866. The formation being ended, the colonel will command: Guides--POSTS.
         867. The colonel will cause a change of front on the left company of the battalion to the
rear, according to the same principles and by inverse means.
         0-868. The companies of skirmishers will execute this movement according to the
principles prescribed for them in changing front on the first battalion company, and by inverse
means.
         869. In changes of front, the colonel will give a general superintendence to the
movement.
         870. The lieutenant-colonel will assure the direction of the guides as they successively
move out on the line of battle, conforming himself to what has been prescribed in the successive
formations.

                             REMARKS ON CHANGES OF FRONT.

         871. When the new direction is perpendicular, or nearly so, to that of the battalion, the
companies ought to make about a half wheel (the eighth of the circle), before marching straight-
forward; but when those two lines are oblique to each other, the smaller the angle which they
form, the less ought the companies to wheel. It is for the colonel to judge, according to the
angle, the precise time when he ought to give the command march, after the caution forward,
and if he cannot catch the exact moment, the word of execution should rather be given a little too
soon, than an instant too late.

         872. When the old and new lines form an angle of forty-five or fewer degrees, the colonel
will find it necessary to arrest the wheel of the companies when the marching flanks shall have
taken but a few paces, or, it may be, have but disengaged, respectively, from the fixed pivots of
the next companies; and in all such cases, the companies will arrive so nearly parallel to the new
line, as to be able to align themselves upon it without the intermediate turn to the right or left; to
execute the movement under either circumstance supposed, the colonel will command:

            Oblique change of front, forward (or to the rear) on (such) company.

         873. In the oblique changes of front, the companies of skirmishers will be established
parallel to the first and last battalion companies, and by the means heretofore explained.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  110

                                               ARTICLE XIII.

              To ploy the battalion into column doubled on the centre.

         874. This movement consists in ploying the corresponding companies of the right and left
wings into column at company distance, or closed in mass, in rear of the two centre companies,
according to the principles prescribed, Article Third, Part Second, of this School.

         875. The colonel, wishing to form the double column at company distance (the battalion
being in line of battle), will command:

  1. Double column, at half distance. 2. Battalion, inward--FACE. 3. MARCH (or
                                         double quick--MARCH).

         876. At the first command, the captains will place themselves two paces in front of their
respective companies; the captains of the two centre companies will caution them to stand fast,
and the other captains will caution their companies to face to the left and right, respectively. The
covering sergeants will step into the front rank.

         0-877. At the same command, each chief of platoon of the companies of skirmishers will
step in front of his platoon, and the captain of the first company will immediately ploy his first
platoon, in close order, in front of its second, and the captain of the second company, his second
platoon, in close order, in rear of its first.

         878. At the second command, the fourth and fifth companies will stand fast; the others of
the right wing will face to the left, and the others of the left wing will face to the right; each
captain whose company has faced, will hasten to break to the rear the two files at the head of his
company; the left guide of each right company, and the right guide of each left company, will
each place himself at the head of its front rank, and the captain by the side of his guide.

         0-879. At the same command, the first platoon column will face to the left, and the
second to the right. Each guide will place himself in front of the front-rank man of the leading
file of his platoon, and each chief by the side of his guide.

         880. At the command march, the fourth and fifth companies, which are to form the first
division, will stand fast; the senior captain of the two will place himself before the centre of the
division, and command: Guide right; the junior captain will place himself in the interval
between the two companies, and the left guide of the left company will place himself in the front
rank on the left of the division, as soon as he shall be able to pass.

         881. All the other companies, conducted by their captains, will step off with life to
arrange themselves in column at company distance, each company behind the preceding one in
the column of the same wing, so that, in the right wing, the third may be next behind the fourth,
the second next to the third, and so on to the right company; and, in the left wing, the sixth may
be next behind the fifth, the seventh next to the sixth, and so on to the left company of the
battalion.

         882. The corresponding companies of the two wings will unite into divisions in arranging
themselves in column; an instant before the union, at the centre of the column, the left guides of
right companies will pass into the line of file closers, and each captain will command: 1. Such
company; 2. Halt; 3. FRONT.

         883. At the second command, which will be given at the instant of union, each company
will halt; at the third, it will face to the front. The senior captain in each division will place
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  111
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  112

himself on its right, and command: Right--DRESS, and the junior captain will place himself in
the interval between the two companies. The division being aligned, its chief will command:
FRONT, and take his position two paces before its centre.

         0-884. At the command march, by the colonel, each platoon column conducted by its
chief, will be directed diagonally to the rear, in such manner that the front rank of the first
platoon of each platoon column shall be on a line six; paces in rear of the front rank of the
division next to the last. The first platoon column three paces from the right, and the second
platoon column three paces from the left flank of the battalion column. The first platoon column
will be dressed to the left, and the second to the right. In case there is but one platoon on each
flank, they will be established in the positions prescribed above, for the first platoons of the
columns.

         885. The column being thus formed, the divisions will take the respective denominations
of first, second, third, &c., according to position in the column beginning at the front.

         886. The lieutenant-colonel who, at the second command given by the colonel, will have
placed himself at a little more than company distance in rear of the right guide of the first
division, will assure the right guides on the direction as they successively arrive, by placing
himself in their rear, and then take post as indicated No. 175, outside the right flank of the
column.

         887. The senior major will follow the movement abreast with the last company, and then
take post as indicated No. 176, outside the right flank of the column. The junior major will place
himself abreast with the first platoon of the first platoon column, and six paces outside its right
flank.

         888. The music will pass to the rear of the column.
         889. The battalion being in march to form the double column at company distance
without halting the battalion, the colonel will command:

      1. Double column at half distance. 2. Battalion, by the right and left flanks.
                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         890. At the first command, each captain will move briskly in front of the centre of his
company; the captains of the fourth and fifth will caution their companies to march straight-
forward, and will command: Quick time: the other captains will caution their companies to face
to the right and left.

         0-891. At the same command, the companies of skirmishers will execute without halting
what is prescribed No. 877. The chief of the first platoon column will caution his column to face
by the left flank, and the chief of the second platoon column will caution his column to face by
the right flank.

         892. At the command march, the fourth and fifth companies will continue to march
straight-forward; the senior captain will place himself before the centre of his division, and
command: Guide right; the junior captain will place himself in the interval between the two
companies. The left guide of the fifth company will place himself on the left of the front rank of
the division. The men will take the touch of elbows to the right. The color and general guides
will retake their places. The three right companies will face to the left, and the three left
companies will face to the right. Each captain will break to the rear two files at the head of his
company; the left guides of the right companies, and the right guides of the left companies, will
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  113

each place himself at the head of the front rank of his company, and the captain by the side of his
guide.

         893. The third and sixth companies will enter the column, and direct themselves
parallelly to the first division. Each of the other companies will, in like manner, place itself
behind the company of the wing to which it belongs, and will be careful to gain as much ground
as possible toward the head of the column.

         894. The corresponding companies of each wing will unite into divisions on taking their
positions in column, and each captain, the instant the head of his company arrives at the centre of
the column, will command: 1. Such company by the right (or left) flank. 2. MARCH.
The senior captain of the two companies will place himself in front of the centre of his division,
and command: Guide right; the junior captain will place himself in the interval between the
two companies. The two companies thus formed into a division, will take the touch of elbows to
the right, and when each division has gained its proper distance, its chief will cause it to march in
quick time.

         0-895. At the command march, by the colonel, the first platoon column will face by the
left, and the second platoon column by the right flank, and they will be conducted by their chiefs
as prescribed No. 884. On arriving at their positions the platoon columns will be faced by the
right and left flanks respectively, and take the quick step.

         896. When the battalion presents an odd number of companies, the formation will be
made in like manner, and the company on either flank which shall find itself without a
corresponding one, will place itself at company distance behind the wing to which it belongs.

         897. The double column, closed in mass, will be formed according to the same principles,
and by the same commands, substituting the indication, closed in mass, for that of at half
distance.

         898. The double column never being formed when two or more battalions are to be in one
general column, it will habitually take the guide to the right, sometimes to the left, or in the
centre of the column; in the last case the command will be, Guide centre. The column will
march, countermarch, and change direction according to the principles prescribed for a simple
column by division.

         899. The double column at company distance will be closed in mass, or, if in mass, will
take half distance, by the commands and means indicated for a simple column by division.

         0-900. When the double column is formed closed in mass, or closes in mass from half
distance, the platoon columns will then be placed so that their first platoons shall be on the same
line with the division next to the last. When the double column countermarches, the platoon
columns will be countermarched by the means prescribed No. 425 and following.

           REMARKS ON THE DISPOSITION OF THE COMPANIES OF
      SKIRMISHERS IN THE PLOYMENTS OF THE DOUBLE COLUMN.

         901. When the double column advances to the attack, half the interval on the right and
left flanks may be covered by skirmishers, deployed on a line with the front rank of the leading
division.

         0-902. When one or more platoons of the companies of skirmishers are deployed to cover
a double column, and the colonel desires their recall, but not with a view to form square, it will
be executed by the commands and means prescribed No. 342. The platoon columns will take
their places as indicated No. 884.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  114

                        To ploy the battalion into division columns.

         903. This movement consists in ploying the odd companies of the right, and the even
companies of the left wing, in rear of the companies on their left and right respectively.

         904. The colonel wishing to form the division columns at company distance, the battalion
being in line, and at a halt, will command:

1. Division columns at company distance. 2. Battalion, inward face. 3. MARCH (or
                                         double quick--MARCH).

         905. At the first command, the captains will place themselves two paces in front of their
respective companies; the captains of the even companies of the right, and the odd companies of
the left wing, will caution their companies to stand fast, and the other captains, of the odd
companies of the right, and of the even companies of the left wing, will caution their companies
to face to the left and right respectively. The covering sergeants will step into the front rank.

         0-906. At the same command, the captains of the first and second companies of
skirmishers, will caution them that they will have to face to the left and right respectively.

         907. At the second command, the even companies of the right, and the odd companies of
the left wing, will stand fast; the others of the right wing will face to the left, and the others of
the left wing will face to the right; each captain whose company has faced, will hasten to the
right, and break off files as indicated No. 111, and will then place himself, as will also the
guides, in the manner prescribed No. 878.

         0-908. At the same command, the first company of skirmishers will face to the left, and
the second to the right; the left guide of the first will place himself on the left of the front rank,
and each chief will place himself by the side of his guide.

         909. At the command march, the even companies of the right, and the odd companies of
the left wing will stand fast. The captain of the right centre company will place himself on the
right, and the captain of the left centre company on the left of the front rank of their respective
companies: they will be covered in the rear rank by the guides. The captain of the second
company will take his place in the front rank on the left of his company, and the captain of the
seventh in the front rank on the right of his company; they will be covered in the rear rank by the
guides.

         910. All the other companies, conducted by their chiefs, will step off with life, to arrange
themselves at company distance, each odd company of the right wing in rear of the even
company on its left, and each even company of the left wing in rear of the odd company on its
right, so that in the right wing, the first and third shall be behind the second and fourth
companies, and in the left wing, the sixth and eighth shall be behind the fifth and seventh
companies. The third and sixth companies will be halted, faced to the front, and dressed to the
right by the senior captain, after which the captains will take their places, two paces in front of
the centre of their respective companies. The captain of the first company will conduct it, until
the left guide is abreast with the left guide of the company immediately in front, when he will
halt, front, and dress his company to the left, and place himself as prescribed No. 169. The
captain of the last company will conduct it, until the right guide is abreast with the light guide of
the company immediately in front, when it will be halted, faced to the front, and dressed to the
right, when the chief will place himself as above indicated.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  115

         0-911. At the command march, by the colonel, the companies of skirmishers, conducted
by their respective chiefs, will file to the left and right, respectively: the first company will take
post thirty paces in rear of the file closers of the rear company of the first division column, and
the second company thirty paces in rear of the file closers of the rear company of the last
division-column. The companies will be halted, faced to the front, and dressed to the right and
left, respectively, and the captains will place themselves two paces in front of the centre of their
respective companies.

         912. Division columns being thus formed, will take the respective denominations of first,
second, third, fourth, according to their position in the line, beginning at the right. If there are
but seven battalion companies present, the seventh will be considered as a division column.
With a less number of companies, the movement will not be performed.

         913. The position of the colonel and junior major will be the same as prescribed Nos. 34
and 35, Title I., the distances being estimated from the file closers, in rear of the rear companies
of the division columns. The lieutenant-colonel will take post in rear of the centre of the first
division column, and the senior major in rear of the centre of the last division column. Each
twelve paces from the file closers of the rear companies. The adjutant and sergeant-major will
take post as prescribed No. 36, Title I. The music will take post in rear of the third division
column, and in the manner indicated Nos. 41 and 42, Title I.

         914. The battalion being in march, to form division columns without halting the battalion,
the colonel will command:

 1. Division columns at company distance. 2. Battalion by the right and left flanks.
                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         915. At the first command, each captain will move as prescribed No. 890; the captains of
the even companies of the right, and of the odd companies of the left wing, will caution their
companies to march straight-forward, and will command Quick time, the other captains will
caution their companies to face to the left and right respectively.

         0-916. At the same command, the captains of the companies of skirmishers will caution
them that they will have to face by the left and right flanks respectively.

         917. At the command march, the even companies of the right, and the odd companies of
the left wing, will continue to march straight forward. The captains and guides of the centre
companies, and of the second and seventh, will conform to what is prescribed No. 909. The
general guides will place themselves as indicated No. 773. The odd companies of the right wing
will face to the left, and the even companies of the left wing, will face to the right; each captain,
whose company has faced, will break to the rear the head of his company, and will place himself,
as will also the guides, in the manner indicated No. 878.

         918. The companies that have faced will each, conducted by its captain, take its place in
its division column, as prescribed No. 910. Each captain of the right wing, the instant he arrives
abreast with the left guide of the leading company of his division column, and each captain of the
left wing, the instant he arrives abreast with the right guide of his division column, will
command: 1. Such company by the right (or left) flank. 2. MARCH. 3. Guide left (or
right). The companies will take the quick step as soon as they have attained their distances, and
each captain will take post, as indicated No. 910.

         0-919. At the command march by the colonel, the companies of skirmishers will face by
the left and right flanks respectively; the chiefs and guides will place themselves as prescribed
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  116

No. 908, and each company will be conducted by its chief, and take the position prescribed No.
911. On arriving at their positions, the companies will be faced by the right and left flanks
respectively, take the step of, and follow their respective division columns.

         920. Division columns, closed in mass, will be formed according to the same principles,
and by the same commands, substituting the indication closed in mass, for that of at company
distance.

         921. A line of division columns at company distance, will be closed in mass, and if
closed in mass, will take company distance, by the commands and means prescribed for a simple
column. The column will always be closed, and distances taken, on the leading companies.

                           To advance in a line of division columns.

         922. A line of division columns will advance, or retire, oblique, and change direction to
the right or left, by the commands and means prescribed No. 648 and following, observing what
follows. In advancing, the captain on the left flank of the leading company of the first, and the
captain on the right flank of the leading company of the fourth division column, will be
respectively responsible, for the preservation of the distances between those columns and the
adjacent ones. When the battalion faces about for the purpose of retiring in line, the captains of
the two centre companies, now leading, will place themselves in the rear rank, now in front, and
on the outer flanks of their respective companies. The captains of the leading companies of the
first and last division columns, will place themselves respectively on the flanks of their
companies, nearest the centre of the line, and in the rear rank, now leading; they will be
responsible for the distances as above indicated. The captains of the rear companies of the
division columns, will place themselves two paces in front of the centre of their respective
companies.

         923. At the command forward, by the colonel, the color-bearer, with the three corporals
of his guard in the rank of file closers, will place themselves in front of the leading centre
companies, and opposite their places in line. The color-bearer, with his two outer corporals, six
paces in front of the file closers, the centre corporal, with the two nearest file closers, will cover
them in that rank.

                      Passage of obstacles, advancing and retiring in line.

         924. A battalion, advancing or retiring in line, encountering an obstacle supposed to
cover one or more division columns, they will be broken to the rear according to the principles
prescribed for breaking off companies in a deployed line, observing what follows. The first
command by the colonel will be, such a division column, or columns, obstacle. The
necessary commands for breaking off will be given by the senior captain of the column, and the
leading company of the column will be closed in mass on the last company of the column behind
which it marches.

         925. In coming again into line, each company will be conducted by its chief diagonally to
the front, and when its right file shall have arrived at the proper distance from the division
column on the line, it will be filed to the right, and having prolonged itself parallel to the line,
will be faced by a flank, by command of its chief, and take the step of the line.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  117
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  118

         926. When the battalion, advancing in line, is brought to the right about, and one or more
division columns have previously been broken off to the rear, the colonel, should he desire to
bring them back into line, will first cause them to take full distance.

         0-927. At the command, Battalion forward, by the colonel, when it is desired to advance
or retire in line, the chiefs and guides of the companies of skirmishers will execute what is
prescribed No. 654. In advancing, and in passing obstacles, the companies of skirmishers will
preserve the relative positions with the division columns, prescribed No. 911. When, in retiring
in line, the first and last division columns pass obstacles, and also when in returning into line, the
companies of skirmishers will execute what is prescribed No. 779.

               To form double column from a line of division columns.

         928. A line of division columns being at a halt, either at half distance or closed in mass, it
will form double column by the commands and means prescribed No. 875 and following,
observing what follows. At the first command by the colonel, the captains of the companies of
the second and third division columns will caution them to stand fast. At the second command,
and at the command march, the second and third division columns will stand fast.

         929. A line of division columns on a march, either at half distance, or closed in mass, will
form double column by the commands and means prescribed No. 889 and following, observing
what follows. At the first command by the colonel, the captains of the companies of the second
and third division columns will caution them to march straight-forward, and will command:
Quick time. At the command march, the second and third division columns will continue to
march straight-forward.

         0-930. The companies of skirmishers will execute what has been prescribed Nos. 877,
879, 884, 891 and 895.

                To form line of division columns from double columns.

         931. The double column, either at half distance or closed in mass, being at a halt, to form
line of division columns, the colonel will command:

  1. Form line division columns. 2. Battalion, outward face. 3. MARCH (or double
                                              quick--MARCH).

         932. At the first command, the right and left guides of the first division will place
themselves before the right and left files respectively, both faced to the right; the captains will
place themselves two paces in front of the centre of their respective companies; the captains of
the companies constituting the first and second divisions of the double column will caution their
companies to stand fast; the other captains of the right wing will caution their companies to face
to the right, and the others of the left wing will caution their companies to face to the left. The
lieutenant-colonel will place one marker at company distance from the right of the first division,
and on a line with, its guides, and a second marker a little less than company distance from the
first; they will face toward the division guides, and be assured in their positions by the
lieutenant-colonel. The senior major will make a like disposition with markers on the left of the
column.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  119

         0-933. At the same command, the chief of the first platoon column will caution his
column to face to the right, and the chief of the second platoon column will caution his column
to face to the left.

         934. At the second command, the first and second divisions will stand fast, and the
captains and guides will place themselves as prescribed Nos. 909 and 910; the others of the right
wing will face to the right, and the others of the left wing will face to the left. Each captain
whose company has faced to the right will place himself by the side of his right guide; and each
captain whose company has faced to the left will place himself by the side of his left guide.

         0-935. At the same command, the platoon columns will face to the right and left
respectively, and the chiefs and guides will place themselves as prescribed No. 879.

         936. At the command march, the companies which form the second and third division
columns will stand fast; those which form the first and fourth division columns, conducted by
their respective captains, will move diagonally to the front.

         937. The captain of the leading company of the first division column will conduct his
company on the marker on the right of the first division, and the captain of the leading company
of the last division column will conduct his company on the marker at the left of the first
division; the other companies will take care to preserve their parallelism with the leading ones,
and the guides will maintain themselves on a perpendicular with the guides of the leading
companies respectively.

         938. On arriving up with the marker, the captain of each leading company will halt in his
own person, and let his company file past him; the leading company, first division column, will
file to the right, and when its last file is abreast with the captain, he will halt the company, face it
to the front, and dress it to the left on the markers. The captain of the rear company of this same
column will establish his company in rear of the first by the means just prescribed; the
companies constituting the last division column will be established on the markers to the left of
the first division, in a similar manner, but by inverse means.

         0-939. At the command march, the platoon columns will be conducted by their respective
chiefs straight-forward. When the right flank of the first platoon column has arrived on a line
with the marker placed on the right of the line of battle, the column will be faced by the left or
right flank, as the double column may have been, at half distance or closed in mass, and having
attained its proper distance from the first division column, it will be halted and deployed on its
first platoon. The second platoon column will execute what has been prescribed for the first, but
by inverse means.

         940. The line being formed, the colonel will command: Guides--POSTS. At this, the
captains and guides will take posts as prescribed Nos. 909 and 910.

         941. The double column, either at half distance or closed in mass, being in march, to form
line of division columns, no markers will be posted. The colonel will command:

1. Form line division columns. 2. Battalion by the right and left flanks. 3. MARCH
                                       (or double quick--MARCH).

         942. At the first command, the captains will place themselves quickly in front of their
respective companies; the captains of the first and second divisions will caution their companies
to march straight to the front, and will command: Quick time; the other captains of the right
wing will caution their companies to face by the right flank, and the other captains of the left
wing will caution their companies to face by the left flank.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  120

         0-943. At the same command, the chiefs of the platoon columns will caution them to face
by the right and left flanks, respectively.

         944. At the command march, the first and second divisions will march in quick time, and
their captains will place themselves as prescribed Nos. 909 and 910. The other companies will
face by the flanks in marching, and will take their places in line, as prescribed No. 934 and
following, observing what follows. When the companies have arrived on the line, each chief of
the companies of the right wing, will command: 1. By the left flank, march. 2. Guide left.
And each chief of the companies of the left wing, will command: 1. By the right flank,
march. 2. Guide right. The chiefs and guides will take their proper places, and the columns
will march aligned with, and take the step of, the centre division columns. The color and general
guides will take their places as prescribed Nos. 736 and 773.

         0-945. At the command march by the colonel, the platoon columns will face by the right
and left flanks, respectively, and will execute what is prescribed No. 939, observing what
follows. The platoon columns will face toward the line of battle in order to obtain their
distances, whether the double column be at half distance, or closed in mass. They will deploy
while on the march.

                 Deployment of the double column, faced to the front.

         946. The colonel, wishing to deploy the double column, will place a marker respectively
before the right and left files of the first division, and as third before the left file of the right
company, same division; which being done, he will cause the two general guides to spring out on
the alignment of the markers, a little beyond the points at which the respective flanks of the
battalion ought to rest; he will then command:

   1. Deploy column. 2. Battalion outward--FACE. 3. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).

         947. The column will deploy itself on the two companies at its head, according to the
principles prescribed for the deployment of columns in mass. The captains of these companies
will each, at the command march, place himself on the right of his own company, and align it by
the right; the captain of the fourth will then place himself in the rear rank, and the covering
sergeant in the rank of file closers, at the moment the captain of the third shall come to its left to
align it.

         0-948. At the first command by the colonel, the chief of each platoon column will
command: Backward march. At this, each column will step nine paces to the rear, and be
halted by its chief; the first platoon column will then be faced to the right, and the second to the
left, by their respective chiefs, who will place themselves, as also the guides, as prescribed No.
935. When the right and left files respectively, of the first and last battalion companies, have
arrived abreast with the right and left files of the platoon columns respectively, the latter will be
put in march, and be faced by the right and left flanks respectively, when those companies halt.

         0-949. When the first platoon column has arrived at its proper distance from the line of
battle, it will be faced about, halted, and deployed on its first platoon. The second platoon
column will execute what has been prescribed for the first by inverse means.

         0-950. If the double column is deployed from half distance, at the first command by the
colonel, the platoon columns will be cautioned to face to the right and left respectively. At the
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  121
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  122

second command, the first platoon column will face to the right, and the second to the left, and
the chief of each column will caution it to stand fast. When the right and left files of the
companies constituting the division next to the last, arrive abreast with the right and left files of
the platoon columns respectively, the latter will be put in march, and will be halted when these
respectively halt. When the companies constituting the last division, have passed, the platoon
columns will again be put in motion: and when the right and left files respectively arrive in a line
with the markers on the right and left of the line of battle, the platoon columns will execute what
is prescribed No. 939.

         951. The deployment being ended, the colonel will command: Guides--POSTS.
         952. If it be the wish of the colonel to cause the fire to commence pending the
deployment, he will give an order to that effect to the captains of the fourth and fifth companies,
and the fire will be executed according to the principles prescribed No. 528.
         953. The battalion being in double column and in march, if the colonel shall wish to
deploy it without halting the column, he will cause three markers to be posted on the line of
battle, and when the head of the column shall arrive near the markers, he will command:

 1. Deploy column. 2. Battalion, by the right and left flanks. 3. MARCH (or double
                                              quick--MARCH).

         954. The column will deploy on the two leading companies, according to the principles
prescribed for the deployment of a close column, No. 580 and following; at the command march,
the chief of the first division will halt it, and the captains of the fourth and fifth companies will
align their companies by the right.

         955. If the column be in march, and it be the wish of the colonel to deploy the column
and to continue to march in the order of battle, he will not cause markers to be established at the
head of the column. The movement will be executed by the commands and means indicated No.
953, observing what follows. At the first command, the chief of the first division will caution it
to continue the march to the front, and will command, Quick time. At the command march, the
first division will march in quick time; the colonel will command, Guide centre. The captains
of the fourth and fifth companies, the color, and the men, will immediately conform to the
principles of the march in line of battle. The companies will take the quick step by the command
of their captains, as they successively arrive in line. The movement completed, the colonel may
cause the battalion to march in double quick time.

         0-956. In deploying on a march, at the first command by the colonel, the chief of each
platoon column will immediately command: Such platoon column, mark time, march.
When the last division has passed, the chief of the first platoon column will face his column by
the right flank, and the chief of the second, by the left flank: the chiefs and guides will place
themselves as prescribed No. 908, and the platoon columns will be put in march, and having
arrived opposite their places in line, they will be faced by the left and right flanks respectively, to
march toward the line, and they will be deployed while marching.

         0-957. In deploying a double column on a march, from half distance, at the first
command by the colonel, the platoon columns will be cautioned by their chiefs, to face by the
right and left flanks respectively. At the command march, the platoon columns will be faced by
the flanks, and each chief will command, Such platoon column, mark time--MARCH. The
platoon columns will then execute what has been prescribed No. 950, they will be deployed
while marching, and take the quick step on attaining their distances.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  123

   To form the double column into line of battle, faced to the right or left.

         958. The double column, being at company distance and at a halt, may be formed into
line of battle faced to the right or left; when the colonel shall wish to form it faced to the right, he
will command:

   1. Right into line wheel, left companies on the right into line. 2. Battalion, guide
                          right. 3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         959. At the first command, each captain will place hims elf before the centre of his
company; the right companies will be cautioned that they will have to wheel to the right into line,
the left companies that they will have to march straight-forward.

         0-960. At the same command, the chief of the first platoon column will face it about, and
the chief of each platoon column will command: 1. Forward. 2. Guide right.

         961. At the second command, the left guide of the fourth company will place himself
briskly on the direction of the right guides of the column, face to them, and opposite to one of the
three last files of his company when in line of battle; the lieutenant-colonel will assure him in
that position.

         962. At the command march, briskly repeated by all the captains, the right companies
will form to the right into line of battle, the left companies will put themselves in march in order
to form on the right into line of battle; these formations will be executed by the means indicated
No. 464 and following, No. 502 and following; the lieutenant-colonel will assure the guides of
the left wing on the line of battle as they successively come upon it.

         0-963. At the command march, the first platoon column will march straight-forward, and
when the guide of the first platoon has passed the right of the line a distance of three paces, the
chief of the column will face it by the right flank, and take the guide to the right; when the chief
of the first platoon has arrived at a distance of thirty-three paces in rear of the right of the line, he
will halt in his own person, and the platoon will file to the right and execute what is indicated
No. 517.

         0-964. The second platoon column will be moved to the front, and wheeled to the right,
so that the right files of the platoons will be on a line with the right file of the last battalion
company, on the completion of the wheel. The column will then be moved to its proper position,
halted, and deployed on the first platoon by its chief.

         965. If the column be in march, the colonel will command:

1. Right into line wheel. 2. Left companies, on the right into line. 3. Battalion, guide
                          right. 4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         966. At the first command, each captain will place himself promptly before the centre of
his company; the right companies will be cautioned that they will have to wheel to the right, and
the left companies that they will have to form on the right into line.

         0-967. At the same command, the chief of the first platoon column, will command,
Right about, and the chief of the second platoon column, will caution it to march straight
forward.

         968. At the command march, briskly repeated, the right companies will form to the right
into line, and the left companies on the right into line. These formations will be executed as
prescribed Nos. 476, 503, and following.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  124

         0-969. At the command march, the first platoon column will face about, and will execute
what is prescribed No. 963. The second platoon column will execute what is prescribed No. 964.

         970. If the colonel should wish to move the battalion forward, at the moment the right
companies have completed the wheel, he will command:

                      5. Forward. 6. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         971. At the command forward, the captains of the right companies will command, Quick
time. At the command march, the right companies will cease to wheel, and march straight-
forward. The colonel will then add: 7. Guide centre. At this command, the color and right
general guides will immediately conform to the principles of the march in line of battle.

         972. The movement of the left companies will be executed in double quick time as
prescribed above, and as they arrive on the line each captain will cause his company to march in
quick time.

         0-973. If the line move on without halting, the first platoon column will take the double
quick step, and after having filed as prescribed No. 963, the company will be faced by the right
flank, and having gained its proper distance will take the step of the line. The second platoon
column, after wheeling parallel to the line, will be deployed while marching.

         974. The column may be formed faced to the left into line of battle according to the same
principles.

         975. If the column be closed in mass instead of at company distance, these movements
will be executed according to the principles prescribed Nos. 637 and 638.

         REMARK ON THE DEPLOYMENT OF THE DOUBLE COLUMN.

         976. The depth of the double column, at company distance, being inconsiderable, closing
it in mass, if at a halt, in order to deploy it, may be dispensed with; but if it be in march, it will be
preferable to cause it so to close, in halting, before deploying.

         977. The double column will be deployed habitually on the centre companies, but the
colonel may sometimes deploy it on any interior company, or on the first or eighth company.

         0-978. If the double column be deployed on any other company than the centre ones, the
platoon columns of skirmishers, will be moved to their proper positions, by the means already
prescribed.

                              To deploy a line of division columns.

         979. A line of division columns, will be deployed either at the halt or on a march, by the
commands and means prescribed for deploying a double column. If the deployment is made from
a halt, the guides of the leading companies of the first and fourth division columns, will, at the
first command by the colonel, place themselves in front of the right and left files of their
companies respectively, faced toward, and on a line with, the markers in front of the centre
division. Those of the right wing will be assured in this position by the lieutenant-colonel, and
those of the left wing by the senior major.

         0-980. The companies of skirmishers will be faced to the right and left respectively, when
the column faces, and at the command march by the colonel, will be moved by their respective
captains to the positions prescribed No. 9, Title I.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  125
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  126

                   REMARK ON THE LINE OF DIVISION COLUMNS.

         981. In case a battalion, in line of division columns, attacks or repels an attack from the
enemy, the colonel may detach the first and fourth division column, each commanded by a field
officer, to attack the flanks of the enemy, while the second and third division columns deploy.

             To form double columns from simple column by company.

         982. The battalion being in column by company, either at full distance, or closed in mass,
right in front, and at a halt, to form double column, the colonel will command:

1. Form double column. 2. Right wing, right--FACE. 3. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).

         983. At the first command the captains of the companies of the right wing, will caution
them that they will have to face to the right. The captains of the left wing, will caution their
companies to stand fast. The left general guide will place himself on the prolongation of the
front rank of the last battalion company, and at a distance from its right guide, equal to the front
of a company, he will be assured in his position by the senior major. The music will take post as
prescribed No. 888.

         0-984. At the same command, the chief of the first platoon column will face his column
to the right. The chief of the second platoon column, will command: Column forward, guide
left. If the column is closed in mass, the second platoon column will face to the left.

         985. At the second command, the companies of the right wing will face to the right, and
their captains will place themselves respectively by the side of their right guides.

         986. At the command march, the companies which have faced, will march straight-
forward; the captain of the left company of the right wing will halt in his own person, and let his
company file past him, and when the left file is abreast with him he will command: 1. Such
company, by the right flank. 2. MARCH. 3. Guide right.

         987. At this, the left guide, placing himself on the right of the rear rank, now in front, will
so conduct it, that the elbow of the file on his left, will graze the covering sergeant on the right of
the leading company of the left wing; just before the union of the two companies, the left guide
will take his place in the rank of file closers, and when the company has just past the covering
sergeant, the captain will command: 1. Such company, halt. 2. About face. The chief of the
division will immediately place himself on the right, and he, as also the junior captain, will
conform to what is prescribed No. 883.

         0-988. At the command march by the colonel, the first platoon column will march
straight-forward, and when its left flank is at a distance from the battalion column, a little more
than a division front, it will be faced by the right flank, and taking the guide to the right, will be
marched to the rear, closing in mass while marching, on its second platoon.

         0-989. When the first platoon arrives on a line six paces in rear of the front rank of the
division next to the last, it will face by the right flank, and be marched and established in the
position prescribed No. 884.

         0-990. The second platoon column will march straight-forward, closing in mass while
marching, until its first platoon arrives on the line above indicated, when it will be faced by the
left flank and be marched and established in the position prescribed No. 884. If the column is
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  127

closed in mass, the second platoon column will march to the rear of the last division, and having
passed three paces will be faced by the right flank, and take the position prescribed No. 884.

         991. The three right companies of the battalion having marched a distance equal to the
front of a division, the colonel will command: 1. Three right companies, by the right flank.
2. MARCH. 3. Guide right.

         992. At the third command, the left guides will place themselves as prescribed No. 987,
and the leading one will direct himself on the left general guide. Each captain, as his company
arrives on a line with its corresponding division company, will command: 1. Such company,
by the right flank. 2. MARCH. If the column is in close order, the two right companies will
mark time, by the command of their captains, until the third has passed, and the right company
will in its turn mark time until the second has passed.

         993. Just before the union, the left guides will place themselves as prescribed No. 987.
When the front-rank man of the left file has arrived up with the right guide of the corresponding
division company, each captain will command: 1. Such company, halt. 2. Front, and the
captains in each division will respectively execute what is prescribed No. 883.

         994. The lieutenant-colonel will assure the right guides of the divisions, on the direction,
by placing himself in their rear, as they successively arrive.

         995. The column being at full distance, to form double column while marching, and to
continue the march, the colonel will command:

   1. Form double column. 2. Right wing by the right flank. 3. MARCH (or double
                                              quick--MARCH).

         996. This movement will be executed by the commands and means as prescribed when at
a halt, observing what follows. At the first command, the captains of the left wing will
command: Quick time, and at the command march, will take or continue the quick step. At the
same command, the companies of the right wing will move at double quick. The captain of the
company, next in front of the leading company of the left wing, having prolonged his company a
distance equal to its front, will command: 1. Such company, by the left flank, quick time.
2. MARCH. And as soon as the company has faced, will add: 1. Mark time. 2. MARCH.
As soon as the corresponding company of his division has arrived abreast with his company, he
will command: 1. Forward. 2. MARCH. 3. Guide right. And at this, the division will take
the guide to the right.

         997. The captains of the other companies of the right wing, on uniting with their
respective division companies, will command: 1. Such company, by the right flank. 2.
Quick time. 3. MARCH. 4. Guide right. At this, the right guides of division will cover the
right guides of the column.

         0-998. The platoon columns of the companies of skirmishers, will execute this movement
as has been prescribed for a halt, observing what follows. The platoon columns will take the
double quick step. The leading platoon of the first platoon column, having arrived on a line a few
paces in advance of the division next to the last, and the second platoon column having arrived
on a line just in rear of this division, they will respectively be faced by the right and left flanks,
by their chiefs, marched to their proper positions, faced by the right flank, and take the quick
step.

                                               ARTICLE XIV.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  128

                                    Dispositions against cavalry.

         999. A battalion being in column by company, at half distance, right in front, and at a
halt, when the colonel shall wish to form it into square, he will first cause divisions to be formed;
which being done, he will command:

                        1. Form square. 2. Right and left into line, wheel.

         1000. At the first command, the file closers of each company of the fourth division,
passing by the outer flanks of their companies, will place themselves two paces before the front
rank, opposite to their respective places, in line of battle, and faced toward the head of the
column. The music, formed in two ranks, will place itself at platoon distance behind the inner
platoons of the second division.

         1001. The lieutenant-colonel will face the left guides, the senior major, placing himself
on the right of the column abreast with the first division, will face the right guides, they will
align them from the front, on the respective guides of the fourth division, who will stand fast,
holding up their pieces, inverted, perpendicularly; the right guides, in placing themselves on the
direction, will take their exact distances; the guides of the second division taking care to take
their distance from the rear rank of the first.

         0-1002. At the same command, the platoon columns will be faced to the left; each chief
and guide will place himself as prescribed No. 879. The columns will take the double quick step.
The first platoon column will be conducted to the rear, and the second diagonally to the front:
they will take a position in rear of the inner platoons of the division next to the last; the front
rank of the leading platoons of the columns, four paces from the rear rank of the division, and the
first platoon column on the right of the second.

         0-1003. The junior major will place himself four paces in rear of the centre of the platoon
columns.

         1004. At the second command, the chief of the first division will caution it to stand fast;
all the captains of the second and third divisions will place themselves before the centres of their
respective companies, and caution them that they will have to wheel, the right companies to the
right, and the left companies to the left into line of battle.

         1005. The color-bearer will step back into the line of file closers, opposite to his place in
line of battle, and will be replaced by the corporal of his file, who is in the rear rank; the corporal
of the same file who is in the rank of file closers will step into the rear rank.

         1006. The chief of the fourth division will command: 1. Fourth division, forward. 2.
Guide left, and place himself at the same time two paces outside of its left flank.

         1007. At the same, the junior major will command: 1. Skirmishers forward. 2.
Guide centre.

         1008. These dispositions ended, the colonel will command:

                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         1009. At this command, briskly repeated, the first division will stand fast; but its right file
will face to the right, and its left file to the left.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  129
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  130

         1010. The companies of the second and third divisions will wheel to the right and left
into line, and the music will advance a space equal to the front of a company.

         1011. The fourth division will close up to form the square, and when it shall have closed,
its chief will halt it, face it about, and align it by the rear rank upon the guides of the division,
who will, for this purpose, remain faced to the front. The junior captain will pass into the rear
rank, now become the front, and the covering sergeant of the left company will place himself
behind him in the front rank, become rear. The file-closers will, at the same time, close up a
pace on the front rank, and the outer file on each flank of the division will face outward.

         0-1012. At the same command, the skirmishers will advance a distance equal to a
company front, the guide in the centre directing himself on the centre of the first front of the
square.

         1013. The square being formed, the colonel will command: Guides--POSTS.
         1014. At this command, the chiefs of the first and fourth, and the guides of all the
divisions, will enter the square.
         1015. The captains whose companies have formed to the right into line, will remain on
the left of their companies; the left guide of each of those companies will, in the rear rank, cover
his captain, and the covering sergeant of each will place himself as a file closer behind the right
file of his company.
         1016. The field and staff will enter the square, the lieutenant-colonel placing himself
behind the left, and the senior major behind the right of the first division, the junior major in rear
of the centre of the skirmishers.
         1017. A battalion ought never to present, near the enemy's cavalry, an odd company.
The odd company, under that circumstance, ought, when the battalion is under arms, to be
consolidated, for the time, with the other companies.
         1018. The fronts of the square will be designated as follows: the first division will always
be the first front; the last division, the fourth front; the right companies of the other divisions will
form the second front; and the left companies of the same divisions the third front.
         1019. A battalion being in column by company, at half distance, right in front, and in
march, when the colonel shall wish to form square, he will first cause divisions to be formed,
which being executed, he will command:

  1. Form square. 2. Right and left into line, wheel. 3. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).

         1020. At the first command, the chief of the first division will caution it to remain faced
to the front, and will command: First division. All the captains of the second and third
divisions will rapidly place themselves before the centres of their respective companies, and
caution them that they will have to wheel, the right companies to the right, and the left
companies to the left into line. The chief of the fourth division will caution it to continue its In
arch, and will hasten to its left flank. The file closers and music will execute what is prescribed
No. 1000.

         1021. At the second command, the color-bearer, and the corporals of his file will execute
what is prescribed No. 1005.

         1022. At the third command, briskly repeated, the chief of the first division will
command: Halt, and align his division to the left; the outer files will face to the right and left.
The rest of the movement will be executed as prescribed Nos. 1010 and following.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  131

         1023. The lieutenant-colonel and the senior major, at the command march, will conform
to what is prescribed No. 1001.

         0-1024. The platoon columns will execute what has been prescribed for them, when
forming square from a halt. They will move on a run to take their places in column.

         1025. If the battalion, before the square is formed, be in double column, the two leading
companies will form the first front, the two rear companies the fourth; the other companies of the
right half battalion will form the second, and those of the left half battalion the third front.

         0-1026. If the square is formed from double column, at the first command, the platoon
columns will be faced to the left and right, or by the left and right flanks respectively, and
proceed to take the positions prescribed No. 1002.

         1027. The first and fourth fronts will be commanded by the chiefs of the first and fourth
divisions; each of the other two by its senior captain.

         1028. The commander of each front will place himself four paces behind the centre of its
present rear rank, and will be replaced momentarily in the command of his company by the next
in rank therein.

         1029. If the column be at full instead of half distance, as has been supposed, the colonel
will first cause divisions to be formed, and will then command:

 1. To form square. 2. To half distance close column. 3. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).

         0-1030. At the first command, the platoon columns will be put in march, and they will
take the positions prescribed No. 1002, as soon as the division next to the last has its distance.

         1031. At the command march, the column will close to company distance, the second
division taking its distance from the rear rank of the first division.

         1032. The senior major will place himself on the right of the column, abreast with the
first division. The music will place themselves as prescribed No. 1000.

         1033. At the moment of halting the fourth division, the file closers will place themselves
as prescribed No. 1000.

         1034. These dispositions being made, the colonel may, according to circumstances, put
the column in march, or cause it to form square; if he wish to do the latter, it will be executed by
the commands and means prescribed No. 999 and following.

         1035. A battalion being in column by company, at full distance, right in front, and ill
march, when the colonel shall wish to form square, he will cause to be executed what is indicated
Nos. 1029 and 1030.

         1036. At the command march, the column will close to company distance, as is
prescribed No. 332. When the chief of the fourth division shall command: Quick, march, the
file closers of this division will place themselves before the front rank.

         1037. The senior major and the music will conform to what is prescribed No. 1000.
         1038. If the colonel shall wish to form square, it will be executed by the commands
indicated No. 1019, and the means prescribed No. 1020, and following.
         1039. If the column by division, whether double or simple, be in mass, and the colonel
shall wish to form it into square, he will first cause it to take company distance; to this effect he
will command:

              1. To form square. 2. By the head of column, take half distance.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  132

         1040. The divisions will take half distance by the means indicated No. 386 and following.
What is prescribed No. 1032 will be executed as the first and second divisions are put in motion.

         1041. The colonel will halt the column the moment the last division shall have its
distance. As soon as the column is halted, the dispositions indicated No. 1033 will be executed,
and when these are completed, the colonel may proceed to form square.

         0-1042. At the first command, the platoon columns will be put in march toward their
places in column, and they will take the places prescribed No. 1002, as soon as the division next
to the last has its distance.

         1043. If the column be in march, the colonel will also, in the first place, cause company
distance to be taken and, for this purpose, will command:

     1. To form square. 2. By the head of column, take half distance. 3. MARCH.

         1044. This movement will be executed as prescribed No. 394 and following. What is
prescribed No. 1032 will be executed as the first and second divisions are put in motion.

         1045. The colonel will proceed to form square the moment the last division shall have its
distance; and by the commands indicated No. 1019, and the means prescribed No. 1020 and
following.

         0-1046. The platoon columns will execute what is prescribed No. 1024, and take their
places in column as soon as the last division has its distance.

         1047. In a simple column, left in front, these several movements will be executed
according to the same principles, and by inverse means; but the fronts of the square will have the
same designations as if the right of the column were in front, that is, the first division will
constitute the first front, and thus of the other subdivisions.

         0-1048. If the left is in front, the platoon columns will take their places in rear of the
inner platoons of the second division.

         1049. The battalion being formed into square, when the colonel shall wish to cause it to
advance a distance less than thirty paces, he will command:

                               1. By (such) front, forward. 2. MARCH.

         1050. If it be supposed that the advance be made by the first front, the chief of this front
will command:

                             1. First division, forward. 2. Guide centre.

         1051. The chief of the second front will face his front to the left. The captains of the
companies composing this front will place themselves outside, and on the right of their left
guides, who will replace £hem in the front rank: the chief of the third front will face his front to
the right, and the captains in this front will place themselves outside, and on the left of their
covering sergeants; the chief of the fourth front will face his front about, and command: 1.
Fourth division, forward; 2. Guide centre. The captain who is in the centre of the first
front, will be charged with the direction of the march, and will regulate himself by the means
indicated in the S. C., No. 89.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  133

         1052. At the command march, the square will put itself in motion; the companies
marching by the flank will be careful not to lose their distances. The chief of the fourth division
will cause his division to keep constantly closed on the flanks of the second and third fronts.

         1053. At the first command, by the colonel, the junior major will command: 1.
Skirmishers forward; 2. Guide centre. At the command march, they will .put themselves in
motion.

         1054. This movement will only be executed in quick time.
         1055. The lieutenant-colonel will place himself in rear of the file of direction, in order to
regulate his march.
         1056. If the colonel should wish to halt the square, he will command:

                                           1. Battalion. 2. HALT.

         1057. At the second command, the square will halt; the fourth front will face about
immediately, and without further command; the second and third fronts will face outward; the
captains of companies will resume their places as in square.

         1058. In moving the square forward by the second, third, or fourth fronts, the same rules
will be observed.

         0-1059. If the square is formed by the fourth front, the skirmishers, at the first command
by the colonel, will be faced about, if by the second front, they will be faced to the right, if by the
third front, they will be faced to the left.

         1060. The battalion being formed into square, when the colonel shall wish to cause it to
advance a greater distance than thirty paces, he will command:

                                               1. Form column.

         1061. The chief of the first front will command:

                               1. First division, forward. 2. Guide left.

         1062. The commander of the fourth front will caution it to stand fast; the commander of
the second front will cause it to face to the left, and then command: By company, by file left.
The commander of the third front will cause it to face to the right, and then command: By
company, by file right. At the moment the second and third fronts face to the left and right,
each captain will cause to break to the rear the three leading files of his company.

         0-1063. The skirmishers will be cautioned by the junior major to stand fast.
         1064. These dispositions being made, the colonel will command:

                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         1065. At this command, the first front will march forward; its chief will halt it when it
shall have advanced a space equal to half its front, and align it by the left.

         1066. The corresponding companies of the second and third fronts will wheel by file to
the left and right, and march to meet each other behind the centre of the first division, and the
moment they unite, the captain of each company will halt his company and face it to the front.
The division being re-formed, its chief will align it by the left.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  134

         1067. The commander of the fourth front will cause it to face about: its file closers will
remain before the front rank.

         1068. The column being thus re-formed, the colonel may put it in march by the
commands and means prescribed No. 219 and following; the right guides will preserve company
distance exactly as the directing guides.

         1069. When the colonel shall wish to re-form square, he will give the commands
indicated No. 1019.

         1070. To cause the square to march in retreat a distance greater than thirty paces, the
colonel will first cause column to be formed as indicated No. 1060; and when formed, he will
cause it to face by the rear rank; to this end, he will command:

     1. To march in retreat. 2. Face by the rear rank. 3. Battalion about--FACE.

         0-1071. At the first command by the colonel, the junior major will command: 1.
Skirmishers, outward face; 2. Double quick--MARCH. At the first command, the first
platoon column will face to the right, and the second to the left. At the command march, the
platoon columns, conducted by the chiefs of platoon, will be filed around the right and left flanks
respectively of the division, marched to the front, and filed around the flanks of the second
division, facing to the rear, and covering the inner platoons of that division.

         1072. At the second command, the file closers of the interior divisions will place
themselves, passing by the outer flanks of their respective companies, behind the front rank
opposite to their places in line of battle; the file closers of the other divisions will stand fast.

         1073. At the third command, the battalion will face about; each chief of division will
place himself before its rear rank, become front, passing through the interval between its two
companies; the guides will step into the rear rank, now front.

         1074. The column being thus disposed, the colonel may put it in march, or cause it to
form square as if it were faced by the front rank. The square being formed, its fronts will
preserve the same designations they had when faced by the front rank.

         1075. The battalion being in square by the rear rank, when the colonel shall wish to
march it in retreat or in advance, a distance less than thirty paces, he will conform to what is
prescribed No. 1049 and following; otherwise, he will re-form the column according to the
principles prescribed No. 1060, by marching forward the fourth front.

         1076. If the square is to be marched to the front a distance greater than thirty paces, the
colonel will face the column by the front rank; to this end, he will command:

    1. To march in advance. 2. Face by the front rank. 3. Battalion about--FACE.

         1077. Which will be executed as prescribed No. 1072 and following.
         0-1078. At the first command by the colonel, the junior major will give the commands
indicated No. 1071; the platoon columns will be faced outward, and be marched to their proper
positions in rear of the division next to the last, as prescribed No. 1071.
         1079. If the column be marching in advance, and the colonel shall wish to march it in
retreat, he will command:

   1. To march in retreat. 2. Battalion right about. 3. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  135
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  136

         0-1080. At the first command by the colonel, the junior major and skirmishers will
execute what is prescribed No. 1071; the gait will be a double quick, or a run, as the command of
the colonel is, march, or double quick march.

         1081. At the second command, the file closers of the second and third divisions will place
themselves rapidly before the front rank of their respective divisions. At the command march,
the column will face about and move off to the rear; the chiefs of divisions and the guides will
conform to what is prescribed No. 1073.

         1082. If the column be marching in retreat and the colonel shall wish to march it in
advance, he will command:

   1. To march in advance. 2. Battalion right about. 3. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).

         0-1083. At the first command, the junior major and skirmishers will execute what is
prescribed No. 1078. The gait as indicated No. 1080.

         1084. At the second command, the file closers of the second and third divisions will place
themselves before the rear rank of their respective divisions; at the third, the column will face by
the front rank.

         1085. While marching, either in advance or retreat, the guide of the division next to the
leading one, will be careful to estimate his distance from the rear rank of the one in front.

                                         To reduce the square.

         1086. The colonel, wishing to break the square, will command:

                  1. Reduce square. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         1087. This movement will be executed in the manner indicated No. 1060 and following;
but the file closers of the fourth front will place themselves behind the rear rank the moment it
faces about; the field and staff, the color-bearer and music, will, at the same time, return to their
places in column.

         0-1088. At the first command by the colonel, the skirmishers will be faced to the right by
the junior major. Each chief of platoon and guide will place himself as prescribed No. 879. At
the command march, the first platoon column, after clearing the flank of the division, will be
conducted diagonally to the front, and the second platoon column will be conducted diagonally
to the rear, to their respective positions on the flanks of the battalion column.

                  REMARKS ON THE RALLYING OF SKIRMISHERS.

         0-1089. The skirmishers will be rallied on the battalion in column, ready for square, by
the commands indicated No. 785. The skirmishers and reserves will direct themselves on a run,
around the flanks of the column, and take the position prescribed No. 1002.

                               To form square from line of battle.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  137
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  138

         1090. A battalion deployed may be formed into square, in a direction either parallel or
perpendicular to the line of battle.

         1091. In the first case, the colonel will cause the battalion to break by division to the rear,
by the right or left, and then close the column to half distance, as indicated No. 1029 and
following.

         1092. In the second case, he will ploy the battalion into simple column, by division at
half distance in rear of the right or left division, or into column doubled on the centre, or form
square forward on the two centre companies.

         1093. To ploy the battalion into column upon one of the flank divisions, the colonel will
command:

1. To form square. 2. Column at half distance by division. 3. On the first (or fourth)
      division. 4. Battalion right (or left)--FACE. 5. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).

         1094. This movement will be executed according to the principles prescribed No. 159
and following; the division next to the leading one taking its distance from the rear rank of the
one in front.

         0-1095. At the third and fourth commands, the companies of skirmishers will execute
what is prescribed Nos. 161 and 164. Each second platoon will ploy in rear of its first. At the
command march, the first platoon column, if the ployment is on the first division, will march
straight-forward, a platoon distance; the column will then be faced by the right flank, by its chief,
and on arriving opposite its place in the battalion column, it will be faced again by the right
flank, and take its proper position in rear of the division next to the last. The second platoon
column will be marched diagonally to the rear, and be established in its proper position on the
left of the first.

         1096. If the battalion be marching in line of battle, and the colonel shall wish to form
square in a direction perpendicular to the line of battle, he will command:

 1. To form square. 2. On the first (or fourth) division, form column. 3. Battalion by
              the right (or left) flank. 4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         1097. This movement will be executed according to the principle prescribed for ploying a
column by division at half distance, No. 201. The chief of the first division will halt his division;
at the command march.

         0-1098. The companies of skirmishers will execute this movement as if from a halt,
observing what follows. At the command march, the companies will face by the right flank, and
each second platoon will take the double quick step or run, according to the gait of the battalion
companies, in order to ploy in rear of its first platoon.

         1099. If the colonel should command, prepare for square, instead of to form square, the
chief of the leading subdivision will command quick time, and at the command march, by the
colonel, the leading subdivision will march in quick time.

         1100. To ploy the battalion into double column, the colonel will command:

1. To form square. 2. Double column at half distance. 3. Battalion inward--FACE.
                               4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  139
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  140

         1101. This movement will be executed as prescribed No. 876 and following.
         0-1102. At the second and third commands, the companies of skirmishers will execute
what is prescribed Nos. 877 and 879. At the command march, the columns will be conducted to
positions prescribed No. 1002.
         1103. The battalion being in march, to ploy it into double column to form square, the
colonel will command:

1. To form square. 2. Form double column. 3. Battalion by the right and left flanks.
                               4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         1104. This movement will be executed as prescribed No. 890. The chief of the leading
division will halt his division at the command march, or command quick time as indicated No.
1099.

         0-1105. The companies of skirmishers will execute this movement, as if from a halt,
observing what is prescribed No. 1098.

         1106. To form square, forward on the centre companies, the colonel will command:

   1. Forward on the centre, form square. 2. Battalion, inward face. 3. MARCH (or
                                         double quick--MARCH).

         1107. At the first command, the lieutenant-colonel will hasten to the front, and place
three markers, at division or company distance from the line, according as the battalion
companies are in number, eight or six; the first marker opposite the right file of the right centre
company, the second opposite one of the three left files of the left centre company, the third,
opposite one of the three left files of the right centre company. Each captain will place himself
two paces in front of the centre of his company, the captains of the two centre companies will
caution them to remain faced to the front, the others of the right wing will caution their
companies to face to the left, and the others of the left wing, to the right.

         1108. The music, in two ranks, will place itself at platoon distance behind the inner
platoons of the two centre companies, the color-bearer will step back into the line of file closers,
opposite his place in line of battle, and will be replaced as indicated No. 1005. The covering
sergeants will step into the front rank.

         0-1109. At the same command, the chiefs of the platoon columns will conform to what is
prescribed No. 877.

         1110. At the second command, the two centre companies will remain faced to the front;
the others of the right wing will face to the left, and the others of the left wing will face to the
right. Those captains whose companies have faced will hasten to the left and right of their
companies respectively, and place themselves as prescribed Nos. 806 and 809. The captains of
the companies next to the right and left centre companies, will caution them that they will wheel
by file to the right and left respectively; each of the other captains whose company has faced,
with the exception of those on the right and left flanks, will caution his company to follow in the
trace of its leading file.

         1111. The captains of the right and left companies will caution them to move straight-
forward; their file closers will move around their right and left flanks, respectively, and place
themselves in front of the front rank, opposite their places in line of battle. The senior captain of
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  141

the two centre companies will place himself before the centre of his division, and caution it that
it will have to move to the front; the junior captain will place himself as indicated No. 880.

         0-1112. At the same command, the platoon columns will execute what is prescribed No.
879.

         1113. At the command march, rapidly repeated by all the captains, the chief of the first
division will command: Guide right, and the right guide will so direct his march, that the breast
of the front-rank man of the right file will come in contact with the elbow of the right marker.
The left guide, of the left centre company, will place himself on the left of his company, and the
left guide of the company on the right of the right centre company, will place himself in the front
rank, on the left flank of his company, as soon as able to pass.

         1114. The lieutenant-colonel will place himself in a position to face the left guide of the
division, when he arrives in the line, and the senior major will in like manner face the right
guide. The captain of the company next to the right of the centre division, will so conduct it, that
his left guide will follow in the trace of the right file of the division, and the right guide of the
company next to the left of the centre division, will in like manner follow in the trace of the left
file of the division. The captains of the first and last companies will conduct their companies
straight-forward.

         1115. When the centre division has arrived near the markers in front, the colonel will
command:

                        1. Battalion, by the right and left flanks. 2. Halt.

         1116. At the second command, the first division will halt, and be dressed to the right by
its chief; its right file will face to the right, and its left file to the left; the file closers will close
one pace on the rear rank. The companies which have wheeled by file to the right, will face by
the right flank, their right guides, at the same time, stepping out before the right files of their
respective companies, facing to the left, and covering the right guide of the first division. They
will be assured in this position by the senior major. The companies which have wheeled by file
to the left, will face by the left flank, their left guides stepping out at the same time before the left
files of their respective companies, facing to the right, and covering the left guide of the first
division. They will be assured in this position, by the lieutenant-colonel. The file-closers of the
second and third fronts, will close up one pace on the rear rank.

         1117. The captains of the first and last companies, at the first command, will caution
them to continue the march. At the command halt, the captains will halt in their own persons
and see their companies file past, and when nearly united, the captain of the first company will
command: 1. First company, by the left flank. 2. Halt. The left guide passing into the rank
of file closers just before the union; the captain of the last company will command: 1. Such
company, by the right flank. 2. Halt.

         1118. The fourth division will be aligned by the rear rank, and by the means prescribed
No. 1011; the junior captain and the covering sergeant of the left company, will place themselves
as indicated in the paragraph just named. The file closers, will at the same time, close up one
pace on the rear rank, and the outer files on each flank of the division, will face outward.

         0-1119. At the command march by the colonel, each platoon column will be conducted
by its chief, diagonally to the front, in double quick time, or the run, as the gait of the battalion
may be quick, or double quick time. The platoon columns will take a position in rear of the inner
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  142

platoons of the first front of the square, and at the distance of the front of a company, plus four
paces.

         1120. The junior major will place himself as indicated No. 1003.
         1121. The square being formed, the colonel will command: Guides--POSTS.
         1122. At this, the dispositions will be made, as prescribed No. 1014 and following.
         1123. The battalion marching in line, and the colonel wishing to form square on the
centre, will command:

 1. Forward on the centre form square. 2. Battalion, by the right and left flanks. 3.
                                 MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         1124. This movement will be executed by the commands and means prescribed for
forming square from a halt, observing what follows. At the first command, the captains of the
two centre companies will caution their companies to continue the march to the front. The color
rank, and general guides will take their places in the ranks, and the color-bearer will take his
place as indicated No. 1005.

         0-1125. At the first command, by the colonel, the companies of skirmishers will execute
what is prescribed No. 891. At the command march, they will be faced by the left and right
flanks respectively, and conducted to the position prescribed No. 1119.

                                         Squares in four ranks.

         1126. If the square formed in two ranks, according to the preceding rules, should not be
deemed sufficiently strong, the colonel may cause the square to be formed in four ranks.

         1127. The battalion being in column by company at half or full distance, right in front,
and at a halt, when the colonel shall wish to form square in four ranks, he will first cause
divisions to be formed, which being executed, he will command:

  1. To form square in four ranks. 2. To half distance, close column. 3. MARCH (or
                                         double quick--MARCH).

         1128. At the first command, the chief of the first division will caution the right company
to face to the left, and the left company to face to the right. The chiefs of the other divisions will
caution their divisions to move forward.

         0-1129. At the same command, the platoon columns will execute what is prescribed No.
1002, observing what follows. The chief of the first platoon column, the moment it has its place
in rear of the division next to the last, will break to the rear three files from the right flank of
each platoon, and the chief of the second platoon column will do the same from the left flank of
each platoon of his column. At the command march, for the formation of the square, the
skirmishers will move forward a platoon distance.

         1130. At the command march, the right company of the first division will form into four
ranks on its left file, and the left company into four ranks on its right file. The formation ended,
the chief of this division will align it by the left.

         1131. The other divisions will move forward and double their files marching; the right
company of each division will double on its left file, and the left company on its right file. The
formation completed, each chief of division will command: Guide left. Each chief will halt his
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  143

division when it shall have the distance of a company front in four ranks from the preceding one,
the chief of the second division, counting from the rear rank of the one in front, and will align his
division by the left. At the instant the fourth division is halted, the file closers will move rapidly
before its front rank.

         1132. The colonel will form square, re-form column, and reduce square in four ranks, by
the same commands and means as prescribed for a battalion in two ranks.

         1133. If the square formed in four ranks be reduced and at a halt, and the colonel shall
wish to form the battalion into two ranks, he will command:

       1. In two ranks undouble files. 2. Battalion outward--FACE. 3. MARCH.

         1134. At the first command, the captains will step before the centres of their respective
companies, and those on the right will caution them to face to the right, and those on the left to
face to the left.

         1135. At the second command, the battalion will face to the right and left.
         1136. At the command march, each company will undouble its files and re-form into two
ranks, as indicated in the S. C., No. 387 and following. Each captain will halt his company and
face it to the front. The formation completed, each chief of division will align his division by the
left.
         1137. At the same command, the files which are broken to the rear from the platoon
columns, will be brought into line by their respective chiefs.
         1138. If the column be in march, with divisions formed in four ranks, and the colonel
shall wish to re-form them into two ranks, he will command:

                1. Guide centre. 2. In two ranks, undouble files. 3. MARCH.

         1139. The captain, placed in the centre of each division, will continue to march straight to
the front, as will also the left file of the right company, and the right file of the left company.
Each company will then be re-formed into two ranks, as prescribed in the S. C.

         1140. The battalion being formed into two ranks, the colonel will command: Guide left
(or right).

         1141. The battalion being in line, to form square in four ranks on one of the flank
divisions, the colonel will command:

 1. To form square, in four ranks. 2. Column at half distance, by division. 3. On the
 first (or fourth) division. 4. Battalion, right (or left)--FACE. 5. MARCH (or double

                                              quick--MARCH).

         1142. At the second command, each chief of division will place himself before the centre
of his division, and caution it to face to the right.

         1143. At the fourth command, the right guide of the first division will remain faced to the
front, the battalion will face to the right.

         1144. At the command march, the first file of four men of the first division will face to
the front, remaining doubled. All the other files of four men will step off together, and each in
succession will close up to its proper distance on the file preceding it, and face to the front,
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  144

remaining doubled. When the last file shall have closed, the chief of division will command:
Left--DRESS.

         1145. The other divisions will ploy into column in the same manner as with a battalion in
two ranks, observing what follows; the chiefs of division, instead of allowing their divisions to
file past them on entering the column, will continue to lead them, and as each division shall
arrive on a line with the right guide of the first division, its chief will halt the right guide, who
will immediately face to the front; the first file of four men will also halt at the same time and
face to the front, remaining doubled. The second file will close on the first, and when closed,
halt, and face to the front, remaining doubled. All the other files will execute successively what
has just been prescribed for the second. When the last, file shall have closed, the chief of
division will command: Left--DRESS.

         0-1146. The companies of skirmishers will execute what is prescribed No. 1095, taking
care to break files to the rear, as indicated No. 1129.

         1147. If the battalion be in march, the colonel will command:

1. To form square, in four ranks. 2. On the first division, form column. 3. Battalion,
                  by the right flank. 4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         1148. At the second command, each chief of division will step in front of the centre of his
division and caution it to face by the right flank. The chief of the first division will caution his
covering sergeant to halt, and remain faced to the front.

         1149. At the command march, the battalion will face to the right; the covering sergeant of
the first division will halt and remain faced to the front, the first division will then form into four
ranks as heretofore prescribed. The other divisions will ploy into column in the same manner as
if the movement had taken place from a halt.

         0-1150. The companies of skirmishers, will execute what is prescribed No. 1098, taking
care to break files to the rear, as indicated No. 1129.

         1151. If the colonel should wish to form a perpendicular square in four ranks, by double
column, he will command:

  1. To form square, in four ranks. 2. Double column, at half distance. 3. Battalion
                   inward--FACE. 4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         1152. At the second command, the captains of companies will place themselves before
the centres of their respective companies, and caution those on the right to face to the left, and
those on the left to face to the right. The captain of the fifth company will caution his covering
sergeant to stand fast.

         1153. At the third command, the battalion will face to the left and right; at the command
march, the left file of the fourth, and the right file of the fifth company, will face to the front,
remaining doubled. The fourth company will close successively by file of fours on the left file,
and the fifth company, in like manner, on the right file; the files will face to the front, remaining
doubled. The formation completed, the chief of division will command: Right dress. The
junior captain will place himself in the interval between the two companies.

         1154. The other companies will close as prescribed for the double column in two ranks,
observing what follows: each captain will halt the leading guide of his company the moment the
head of his company arrives on a line with the centre of the column. In the right companies, the
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  145

left guides will step into the line of file closers, and the left file of four men will face
immediately to the front, remaining doubled, and by the side of the right guide of the left
company. The companies will each form into four ranks, as prescribed No. 1144, the right
companies on the left file, and the left companies on the right file. The formation completed, the
junior captain will place himself between the two companies, and the senior will command:
Right dress.

         0-1155. The companies of skirmishers will execute what is prescribed No. 1102,
breaking files to the rear as indicated No. 1129.

         1156. If the battalion be in march, the colonel will command:

 1. To form square, in four ranks. 2. Form double column. 3. Battalion by the right
                    and left flanks. 4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         1157. At the second command, the captains will place themselves before the centres of
their respective companies, and those on the right will caution them to face by the left flank, and
those on the left to face by the right flank; the captain of the fifth company will caution his
covering sergeant to halt, and remain faced to the front.

         1158. At the command march, the fourth and fifth companies will halt. The battalion will
face to the left and right; the covering sergeant of the fifth company will halt and remain faced to
the front, the movement will then be executed as if the battalion was at a halt.

         0-1159. The companies of skirmishers, will execute what is prescribed No. 1105.
         1160. The battalion being deployed, to form square in four ranks, forward on the centre,
the colonel will command:

  1. Forward on the centre, in four ranks, form square. 2. Battalion inward face. 3.
                                 MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         1161. This movement will be executed by the commands and means prescribed for the
two-rank formation, observing what follows. At the command march, the centre division will
form in four ranks, as prescribed No. 1130. The companies of the right and left wings, which
wheel by file to the left and right, to form the second and third fronts of the square, will
respectively, before wheeling, march straight-forward a distance equal to the front of a platoon.

         0-1162. The companies of skirmishers will execute what is prescribed for them in the
two-rank formation, taking care to conform to what is prescribed No. 1129.

         1163. The battalion marching in line, to form square, forward on the centre, in four ranks.
The colonel will command:

 1. Forward on the centre, in four ranks, form square. 2. Battalion by the right and
                       left flanks. 3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         1164. This movement will be executed by the commands and means prescribed for the
formation from a halt, observing what follows. At the first command, the captains of the two
centre companies will caution their companies, to continue the march to the front, and at the
command march, they will form in four ranks, as prescribed No. 1131.

         1165. The companies of skirmishers will conform to what is prescribed No. 1125.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  146
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  147

         1166. The color-bearer, color rank, and general guides, at the command march, will take
their places as prescribed No. 1005.

                                             Oblique squares.

         1167. The battalion being in line of battle, when the colonel shall wish to form the
oblique square, he will command:

              1. To form oblique square. 2. On the first division form, column.

         1168. At the second command, the lieutenant-colonel will trace the alignment of the first
division in the following manner: he will place himself before and near the right file of this
division, face to the left, march twelve paces along the front rank, halt, face to the right, march
twelve paces perpendicularly to the front, halt again, face to the right, and immediately place a
marker at this point. The covering sergeant of the right company will step, at the same time,
before its right file, face to the left, and conform the line of his shoulders to that of the shoulders
of the marker established by the lieutenant-colonel. These two markers being established, the
lieutenant-colonel will place a third marker on the same alignment, at the point where the left of
the division will halt.

         1169. The chiefs of division will place themselves in front of the centres of their
divisions; the chief of the first division will immediately establish it by a wheel to the right on a
fixed pivot, against the markers, and align it by the left. The chiefs of the other divisions will
caution them to face to the right. The colonel will then command:

            3. Battalion right--FACE. 4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         1170. The three rear divisions will direct their march so as to place themselves at half
distance from each other, and in the rear of the first division, as previously indicated, observing
what follows:

         1171. The chief of the second division, instead of breaking the headmost files to the rear,
will break them to the front, and at the command march, will conduct his division toward the
point of entrance in the column. Arrived at this point, he will halt in his own person, cause his
division to wheel by file to the right, instructing the right guide to direct himself parallelly to the
first division; and as soon as the left file has passed, its chief will halt the division, and align it by
the left. The other divisions will break to the rear, but slightly; each will enter the column as
prescribed for the second, and the moment the battalion is ployed into column, the colonel will
cause it to form square.

         1172. The formation of a battalion into oblique square on the left division, will be
executed according to the same principles and by inverse means.

         1173. Should the battalion be in march, the colonel will first cause it to halt.
         1174. In the preceding example, the battalion was supposed to be deployed; but if it be
already formed in column, the desired obliquity will be established by causing it to change
direction by the flank; to this end, the colonel will command:

        1. To form oblique square. 2. Change direction by the right (or left) flank.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  148
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  149

         1175. At the second command, the lieutenant-colonel will trace the new direction in the
following manner; he will place before the right and left files of the headmost division, two
markers, and a third on the prolongation of the first two, on the side of the change of direction,
and at twelve paces from the flank of the column. He will then place himself before the third
marker, march twelve paces perpendicularly to the front, halt, and finish tracing the new
direction in the manner indicated, No. 1168.

         1176. The colonel will then command:

      3. Battalion right (or left)--FACE. 4. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         1177. The change of direction having been executed, the colonel will cause the square to
be formed.

         1178. Should the column be in march, the colonel will first cause it to halt.
         1179. Oblique squares in four ranks, will be executed by the same means, and according
to the principles prescribed for the formation of squares in four ranks.
         1180. Whether the battalion be ployed into simple or double column, the particular
dispositions for the formation of the square will be executed as prescribed No. 1000 and
following. When the division which is to form the rear of the column, is aligned, the senior
major will rectify the position of the guides on the side of the column opposite the direction.
         0-1181. In the formation of oblique squares, either from line or column, the companies of
skirmishers will conform to the principles which have been prescribed in the formation of
perpendicular squares, observing what follows. When the square is formed from column, the
platoon columns will take the position indicated No. 1002, at the command march, given by the
colonel, for the battalion column to change direction by a flank.

 REMARKS ON THE FORMATION OF SQUARES AND THE RALLYING OF
                                              SKIRMISHERS.

         1182. In all formations of squares from columns composed of but six companies, the
music will place itself one pace in rear of the file closers of the second division. If the square is
formed forward on the centre from line, the music will take place one pace in rear of the file
closers of the first division.

         1183. It is a general principle that a column by company, which is to be formed into
square, will first form divisions, and close to half distance. Nevertheless, if it find itself suddenly
threatened by cavalry without sufficient time to form divisions, the colonel will cause the column
to close to platoon distance, and then form square by the commands and means which have been
indicated; the leading and rearmost companies will conform themselves to what has been
prescribed for divisions in those positions. The other companies will form by platoon to the right
and left into line of battle, and each chief of platoon, after having halted it, will place himself on
the line, as if the platoon were a company, and he will be covered by the guide in the rear rank.

         0-1184. At the first command for forming square, the chief of the first platoon column
will deploy it on his first platoon; he will then face his company to the left or right, as the right or
left may be in front, and taking the double quick step, will establish his company, at platoon
distance, in front or rear of the first battalion company. The second company of skirmishers, will
take a position in rear or front, of the last battalion company, by the same means. The junior
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  150

major will take post in the centre of the square. When the square is reduced, the companies of
skirmishers will resume their proper positions.

         1185. A battalion in column at full distance, having to form a square, will always close
on the leading subdivision; and a column closed in mass, will always, for the same purpose, take
distances by the head. In either case, the second subdivision should be careful, in taking its
distance, to reckon from the rear rank of the subdivision in front of it.

         1186. If a column by company should be required to form square in four ranks, the
doubling of files will always take place on the file next the guide.

         0-1187. In this case, the companies of skirmishers after filing into the column, will close
up, and face to the front without undoubling.

         1188. When a column, disposed to form square, shall be in march, it will change
direction as a column at half distance; thus, having to execute this movement, the column will
take the guide on the side opposite to that to which the change of direction is to be made, if that
be not already the side of the guide.

         1189. A column doubled on the centre at company distance or closed in mass, may be
formed into square according to the same principles as a simple column.

         1190. When a battalion is ployed, with a view to the square, it will always be in rear of
the right or left division, in order that it may be able to commence firing, pending the execution
of the movement. The double column, also, affords this advantage, and being more promptly
formed than any other, it will habitually be employed, unless particular circumstances cause a
different formation to be preferred.

         1191. A battalion, in square, will never use any other than the fire by file, and by rank;
the color being in the line of file closers, its guard will not fall back as prescribed No. 47; it will
fire like the men of the company of which it forms a part.

         1192. If the square be formed in four ranks, the first two ranks will alone execute the
firings prescribed above; the other two ranks will remain either at shoulder or support arms.

         1193. The formation of the square being often necessary in war, and being the most
complicated of the manoeuvres, it will be as frequently repeated as the supposed necessity may
require, in order to render its mechanism familiar to both officers and men.

         1194. In the execution of this manoeuvre, the colonel will carefully observe that the divers
movements which it involves succeed each other without loss of time, but also without
confusion; for, if the rapidity of cavalry movements requires the greatest promptitude in the
formation of squares, so, on the other hand, precipitancy always results in disorder, and in no
circumstance is disorder more to be avoided.

         1195. If the battalion is formed in square when skirmishers are rallied, the platoons and
sections will be directed by their respective chiefs, in rear of the square, which will be opened at
the angles to receive them.

         1196. If circumstances should prevent the angles of the square from being opened, the
skirmishers will throw themselves at the feet of the front-rank men, the right knee on the ground,
the butt of the piece resting on the thigh, the bayonets in a threatening position. A part may
dispose themselves about the angles, where they can render good service by defending the
sectors without fire. The first company of skirmishers will be attached to the first and second,
and the second company, to the third and fourth fronts of the square.

         1197. When the platoons or sections placed in the interior of a square or column, are to
be deployed, they will be marched out by the flank, and then, if required to cover the front, they
will be moved forward, as prescribed No. 161, and following instructions for skirmishers; and as
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  151

soon as they have unmasked the column or square they will be deployed. If it be required to
cover the flanks of the column, or other fronts of the square, the platoons, as soon as disengaged,
will be brought into line, facing outward, and then deployed, either forward, or by the flanks.

         1198. If the battalion on which the skirmishers, other than the companies of skirmishers,
are rallied, be in column, ready to form square, they will take their proper places in the column,
but if circumstances should prevent their so doing, they will, when the square is formed, act as
prescribed for the skirmishers No. 1196.

         0-1199. When the colonel shall wish to cover by skirmishers the movements of a column
preparing to form square, he will detach for this purpose one or two platoons of the companies of
skirmishers.

         1200. When the colonel shall be ready to form square, he will, in order to recall the
skirmishers, cause to the color to be sounded. The skirmishers in this case will move in quick, or
double quick time.

                                        Column against cavalry.

         1201. When a column closed in mass has to form square, it will begin by taking company
distance, but if so suddenly threatened by cavalry as not to allow time for this disposition, it will
be formed in the following manner:

         1202. The colonel will command:

                               1. Column against cavalry. 2. MARCH.

         1203. At the first command, the chief of the leading division will caution it to stand fast
and pass behind the rear rank; in the interior divisions each captain will promptly designate the
number of files necessary to close the interval between his company and the one in front of it.
The captains of the division next to the one in rear, in addition to closing the interval in front,
will also close up the interval which separates this division from the last; the chief of the fourth
division will caution it to face about, and its file closers will pass briskly before the front rank.

         0-1204. At the same command, the chief of the first platoon column will immediately
dispose it along the front, and right flank of the column, as indicated No. 1196, and the chief of
the second platoon column, will dispose his column in like manner, along the rear, and left flank
of the battalion column.

         1205. At the command march, the guides of each division will place themselves rapidly
in the line of file-closers. The first division will stand fast, the fourth will face about, the outer
file of each of these divisions will then face outward; in the other divisions the files designated
for closing the intervals will form to the right and left into line, but in the division next to the
rearmost one, the first files that come into line will close to the right or left until they join the
rear division. The files of each company which remain in column will close on their outer files,
formed into line, in order to create a vacant space in the middle of the column.

         1206. If the column be in march, the column against cavalry will be formed by the same
commands and means. At the command march, the first and fourth divisions will halt, and the
latter division will face about; the interior divisions will conform to what has been prescribed
above.

         1207. The battalion being no longer threatened by the cavalry, the colonel will command:
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  152
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  153

                                      1. Form column. 2. MARCH.

         1208. At the command march, the files in column will close to the left and right, to make
room for those in line, who will retake their places in column by stepping backward, except those
closing the interval between the two rear divisions, who will take their places in column by a
flank movement. The fourth division will face about, the guides will resume their places.

         1209. At the command march, the companies of skirmishers will retake their places.
         1210. If the colonel should be so pressed as not to have time to order bayonets to be
fixed, the men will fix them, without command or signal, at the cautionary command, column
against cavalry.
         1211. As this manoeuvre is often used in war, and with decided advantage, the colonel
will frequently cause it to be executed, in order to render it familiar.

                                                ARTICLE XV.

                                                   The rally.

         1212. The battalion being in line of battle, the colonel will sometimes cause the disperse
to be sounded, at which signal, the battalion will break and disperse.

         1213. When the colonel shall wish to rally the battalion, he will cause to the color to be
sounded, and at the same time place two markers and the color-bearer in the direction he may
wish to give the battalion.

         1214. Each captain will rally his company about six paces in rear of the place it is to
occupy in line of battle.

         1215. The colonel will cause the color-company to be promptly established against the
markers, and each company, by the command of its captain, will be aligned on the color-
company, according to the principles heretofore prescribed.

         1216. When the colonel shall wish to rally the battalion in column, he will cause the
assembly to be sounded, and place two markers before the position to be occupied by the first
company; the captain of this company will rally his company in rear of the two markers, and
each of the other captains will rally his company at platoon distance, behind the one which
should precede it in the order in column.

         0-1217. In rallying, either in line or column, at the signal, the companies of skirmishers
will at once take their proper positions.

                                               ARTICLE XVI.

                           Rules for manoeuvring by the rear rank.

         1218. It may often be necessary to cause a battalion to manoeuvre by the rear rank: when
the case presents itself, the following rules will be observed:

         1219. The battalion being by the front rank, when the colonel shall wish to manoeuvre by
the rear rank, he will command:

                   1. Face by the rear rank. 2. Battalion. 3. About--FACE.
SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.  154

         1220. If the battalion be deployed, this movement will be executed as has been indicated
for the fire by the rear rank.

         0-1221. In this case, the companies of skirmishers will execute what is prescribed No. 61.
         1222. If the battalion be in column by company, or by platoon, right or left in front, the
chiefs of subdivision, to take their new places in column, will each pass by the left flank of his
subdivision, and the file closers by the right flank; the guides will place themselves in the rear
rank.
         1223. If the column be formed by division, the chiefs of division will each pass by the
interval in the centre of his division, and the file closers by the outer flanks of their respective
companies; the junior captain in each division will step into the rear rank, and be covered in the
front rank by the covering sergeant of the left company.
         1224. The lieutenant-colonel will place himself abreast with the leading subdivision, and
the senior major abreast with the rearmost one.
         0-1225. The platoon columns, at the first command, will be marched around the flanks of
the battalion column, and take position, such that the first platoon column shall occupy with
reference to the battalion column, the same position that the second did before the column faced;
and in a similar manner, the second a position like that the first had before the facing of the
battalion.
         1226. The battalion being faced by the rear rank, companies, divisions, and wings, will
preserve their prior denominations respectively.
         1227. The manoeuvres by the rear rank will be executed by the same commands and on
the same principles as if the battalion faced by the front rank, but in such manner that when the
battalion shall be brought to its proper front, all the subdivisions may find themselves in their
regular order from right to left.
         1228. According to this principle, when a column faced by the rear rank is deployed, the
subdivisions which, in line of battle by the front rank, ought to find themselves on the right of the
subdivision on which the deployment is made, will face to the left; and those which ought to be
placed on its left, will face to the right.
         1229. When a battalion in line of battle, faced by the rear rank, is to be ployed into
column, the colonel will announce, in the commands, left or right in front, according as it may be
intended that the first or last subdivision shall be at the head of the column, because the first
subdivision is on the left, and the last on the right of the battalion faced by the rear rank. The
column by the rear rank will take the guide to the right, if the first subdivision be in front, and to
the left in the reverse case.
         1230. A column faced by the rear rank will be brought to its proper front by the means
heretofore prescribed. If the column be formed by company, or by platoon, the chiefs of
subdivision, in order to take their new places in column, will pass by the left of subdivisions,
now right, and the file closers by the right, now left.

                              END OF SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  155

            TABLE OF CONTENTS.

                                               _______________

                                 VOL. II.

                                               _______________

                                     TITLE V.

                                    SCHOOL OF THE BATTALION.
                                                                                                             PAGE.

Formation of the battalion (No. 1) ...................................................................................................2
Composition and march of color escort (No. 5) ..............................................................................2
Honors paid to colors (No. 12) ........................................................................................................3
Escort of color off the field (No. 14) ...............................................................................................3
General rules and division of the School of the Battalion (No. 19).................................................3

                                                 PART FIRST.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

To open and close ranks (No. 27)....................................................................................................4

                                                  ARTICLE II.

Manual of arms (No. 35)..................................................................................................................5

                                                 ARTICLE III.

Loadings at will and firings (No. 37)...............................................................................................5

                                               PART SECOND.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

To break by company to the right (No. 78) .....................................................................................8
To break by division (No. 87)........................................................................................................10
To recall skirmishers (No. 95) .......................................................................................................11
To break the column forward without halting it (No. 97) .............................................................11
To break the battalion marching in line of battle (No. 103) ..........................................................12

                                                  ARTICLE II.

To break to the rear by the right or left of companies (No. 108)...................................................13
Battalion marching to break to the rear (No. 118).........................................................................15
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  156

To advance or retire by the right of companies (No. 135).............................................................16
Battalion marching in line to advance or retire by right of companies (No. 145).........................17
Advancing or retiring by the right or left of companies to form line (No. 150)............................17
Remarks on deployment of skirmishers in advancing or retiring by right or left of companies

    (No. 156)..................................................................................................................................18

                                                 ARTICLE III.

To ploy battalion into close column on the first division (No. 159)..............................................18
To ploy the battalion into close column on the fourth division (No. 190) ....................................22
To ploy the battalion on an interior division (No. 193).................................................................22
The battalion being in march to ploy it on first division (No. 200)...............................................23
Remarks on ploying the battalion into column (No. 213) .............................................................24

                                                 PART THIRD.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

To march in column at full distance (No. 216)..............................................................................24
Column being in march to execute the about (No. 225)................................................................26
Manner of prolonging a line of battle by markers (No. 228).........................................................26
Remarks on the march in column (No. 232)..................................................................................27

                                                  ARTICLE II.

Column in route (No. 239).............................................................................................................29
General remarks on the column in route (No. 260) .......................................................................31

                                                 ARTICLE III.

To change direction in column at full distance (No. 273) .............................................................32

                                                 ARTICLE IV.

To halt the column (No. 286).........................................................................................................34

                                                  ARTICLE V.

To close the column to half distance or in mass on the leading company (No. 294) ....................35
To close the column on the eighth or rearmost company (No. 316) .............................................36
Column being in march, to close on the eighth company (No. 325) .............................................38
Remarks (No. 332).........................................................................................................................39

                                                 ARTICLE VI.

To march in column at half distance or closed in mass (No. 335) ................................................39
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  157

Remarks (No. 342).........................................................................................................................39

                                                 ARTICLE VII.

To change direction in column at half distance (No. 343).............................................................41

                                                ARTICLE VIII.

To change direction in column closed in mass, first, marching (No. 345)....................................41
To change direction in column closed in mass, second, from a halt (No. 365).............................45

                                                 ARTICLE IX.

Being in column at half distance, or closed in mass, to take distances by the head of the column
    (No. 386)..................................................................................................................................47

To take distances on the rear of the column (No. 397)..................................................................48
To take distances on the head of the column (No. 408) ................................................................50

                                                  ARTICLE X.

To countermarch a column at full or half distance (No. 422)........................................................51
To countermarch a column closed in mass (No. 424) ...................................................................53

                                                 ARTICLE XI.

Being in column by company closed in mass, to form divisions (No. 437)..................................55
Column at a halt, at full or half distance, to form divisions (No. 453)..........................................56
Column marching at full or half distance to form divisions (No. 456) .........................................56
Remarks on the formation of divisions from a halt (No. 457).......................................................58

                                               PART FOURTH.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

Manner of determining the line of battle (No. 463).......................................................................58

                                                  ARTICLE II.

Column at full distance, right in front, to the left in-to line of battle (No. 464)............................59
Same movement in column in march (No. 476)............................................................................60
Same movement, and to move the line forward (No. 478)............................................................60
By inversion to the right or left into line of battle (No. 484).........................................................61
Successive formations (No. 490)...................................................................................................62

                                                 ARTICLE III.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  158

Column at half distance, to the left or right into line of battle (No. 492) ......................................62
By the rear of column, to the left or right into line (No. 493) .......................................................62
Column at half distance on the right or left into line of battle (No. 500) ......................................64
Remarks on the formation on the right or left into line (No. 523).................................................66
Column at half distance forward into line or battle (No. 530).......................................................67
Column at half distance, faced to the rear into line of battle (No. 531) ........................................67

                                                 ARTICLE IV.

Deployment of columns closed in mass (No. 555)........................................................................70
Deployment of column on first division (No. 558) .......................................................................71
To deploy while marching on first division (No. 580) ..................................................................73
To deploy from a halt on rearmost division (No. 591) ..................................................................75
To deploy while in march on rearmost division (No. 610)............................................................76
To deploy the column on an interior division (No. 621) ...............................................................77
To deploy while in march on an interior division (No. 626).........................................................78
Remarks on deployments of columns closed in mass (No. 632)...................................................78
Remarks on inversions (No. 639) ..................................................................................................79

                                                 PART FIFTH.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

To advance in line of battle (No. 648) ..........................................................................................81
Remarks on the advance in line of battle (No. 679) ......................................................................86

                                                  ARTICLE II.

Oblique march in line of battle (No. 686) .....................................................................................86
Remarks on the oblique march (No. 696)......................................................................................87

                                                 ARTICLE III.

To halt the battalion marching, in line of battle, and to align it (No. 699) ....................................87

                                                 ARTICLE IV.

Change of direction in marching in line of battle (No. 717)..........................................................91

                                                  ARTICLE V.

To march in retreat in line of battle (No. 730)...............................................................................92

                                                 ARTICLE VI.

To halt the battalion marching in retreat and to face it to the front (No. 744)...............................94
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  159

                                                 ARTICLE VII.

Change of direction in marching in retreat (No. 751)....................................................................94

                                                ARTICLE VIII.

Passage of obstacles advancing and retreating (No. 753) .............................................................96
Remarks on the disposition or the companies of skirmishers, and of the battalion companies

    when deployed as such (No. 785)..........................................................................................100

                                                 ARTICLE IX.

To pass a defile in retreat by the right or left flank (No. 788) ....................................................100
Remarks on the disposition of the companies of skirmishers in passing a defile (No. 802).......102

                                                  ARTICLE X.

To march by the flank (No. 805) .................................................................................................103

                                                 ARTICLE XI.

To form the battalion on the right or left by file into line of battle (No. 820) ............................104
Remarks (No. 828).......................................................................................................................104

                                                 ARTICLE XII.

Change of front perpendicularly forward (No. 830) ...................................................................106
Same movement, the battalion being in march (No. 843) ..........................................................107
Change of front perpendicularly to the rear (No. 852) ...............................................................108
Remarks on changes of front (No. 871).......................................................................................109

                                                ARTICLE XIII.

To ploy the battalion into column doubled on the centre (No. 874) ...........................................110
To form double column marching (No. 889) ..............................................................................112
Remarks on disposition of companies of skirmishers in the ployments of double column (No.

    901) .......................................................................................................................................113
To ploy the battalion into division columns (No. 903) ...............................................................114
To form division columns marching (No. 914) ..........................................................................115
To close division columns in mass and to take distances (No. 921) ..........................................116
To advance in a line of division columns (No. 922) ...................................................................116
Passage of obstacles advancing or retiring in a line of division columns (No. 924) ..................116
To form double column from line of division columns (No. 928) .............................................118
To form line of division columns from double column (No. 931) .............................................118
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  160

Same movement while marching (No. 941) ...............................................................................119
Deployment of double column faced to the front (No. 946) ......................................................120
Same movement while marching (No. 953) ...............................................................................122
To form the double column into line of battle faced to the right or left (No. 958) .....................122
Same movement while marching (No. 965) ...............................................................................123
Same, and to move the battalion forward (No. 970) ...................................................................123
Remarks on the deployment of the double column (No. 976) ....................................................124
To deploy a line of division columns (No. 979) .........................................................................124
Remarks on the line of division columns (No. 981) ...................................................................126
To form double column from simple column by company (No. 982).........................................126

                                                ARTICLE XIV.

Column by company at half distance, right in front, at a halt to form square (No. 999) ............128
Same movement while in march (No. 1019) ..............................................................................130
If the column be at full instead of half distance (No. 1029) .......................................................131
If the column be by division, double or simple, and in mass, to form square (No. 1039) ..........131
If this column be in march (No. 1043) ........................................................................................132
Battalion being in square, to advance less than thirty paces (No. 1049) ....................................132
To halt the square (No. 1056) .....................................................................................................133
The battalion being in square to form column to advance a greater distance than thirty paces (No.

    1060) .....................................................................................................................................133
To march the square in retreat a greater distance than thirty paces (No. 1070) .........................134
To reduce the square (No. 1086) ................................................................................................136
Remarks on the rallying of skirmishers (No. 1089) ....................................................................136
To form square from line of battle (No. 1090) ...........................................................................138
To ploy the battalion into column upon flank division to form square (No. 1093) ....................138
Same movement when marching (No. 1096) .............................................................................138
To ploy the battalion into double column to form square (No. 1100) ........................................138
Same movement when marching (No. 1103) .............................................................................140
To form square forward on the centre companies (No. 1106) ....................................................140
Same movement when marching (No. 1123) .............................................................................142
To form square in four ranks from column by company at half or full distance (No. 1127) .....142
Square formed in four ranks reduced, to form battalion in two ranks (No. 1133) .....................143
The column in march, with divisions in four ranks, to re-form in two ranks (No. 1138) ..........143
The battalion in line to form square in four ranks, or flank division (No. 1141) .......................143
Same movement, battalion in march (No. 1147) ........................................................................144
To form perpendicular square in four ranks by double column (No. 1151) ...............................144
Same movement, battalion in march (No. 1156) ........................................................................145
To form square in four ranks in line by forward on the centre (No. 1160) .................................145
The same movement, the battalion being in march (No. 1163)...................................................145
To form oblique square from line of battle (No. 1167) ...............................................................147
To form oblique square from battalion in column (No. 1174) ...................................................147
Remarks on the formation of squares and the rallying of skirmishers (No. 1182) .....................149
Column against cavalry (No. 1201).............................................................................................151
To form column (No. 1207).........................................................................................................151
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  161

                                                 ARTICLE XV.
The rally (No. 1212) ....................................................................................................................153

                                                ARTICLE XVI.
Rules for manoeuvring by the rear rank (No. 1218).....................................................................153
