 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
71
73. To resume the proper front, the instructor will command: 
 
1. Face by the front rank.  2. Company.  3. About—FACE. 
 
74. At the first command, the captain, covering sergeant and file-closers will conform to 
what is prescribed Nos. 69 and 70. 
75. At the third command, the company having faced about, the captain and covering 
sergeant will resume their places in line. 
76. In this lesson, the instructor will impress on the men the importance of aiming always 
at some particular object, and of holding the pieces as prescribed in the S. S., No. 185. 
77. The instructor will recommend to the captain to make a short pause between the 
commands aim and fire, to give the men time to aim with accuracy. 
78. The instructor will place himself in position to see the two ranks, in order to detect 
faults; he will charge the captain and file closers to be equally watchful, and to report to him 
when the ranks are at rest.  He will remand, for individual instruction, the men who may be 
observed to load badly. 
79. The instructor will recommend to the soldiers, in the firings, the highest degree of 
composure or presence of mind; he will neglect nothing that may contribute to this end. 
80. He will give to the men, as a general principle, to maintain, in the direct fire, the left 
heel in its place, in order that the alignment of the ranks and files may not be deranged; and he 
will verify, by examination, after each exercise in firing, the observance of this principle. 
81. The instructor will observe, in addition to these remarks, all those which follow. 
82. When the firing is executed with cartridges, it is particularly recommended that the 
men observe, in uncocking, whether smoke escapes from the tube, which is a certain indication 
that the piece has been discharged; but if, on the contrary, no smoke escapes, the soldier, in such 
case, instead of reloading, will pick and prime again.  If, believing the load to be discharged, the 
soldier should put a second cartridge in his piece, he ought, at least, to perceive it in ramming, by 
the height of the load; and he would be very culpable should he put in a third.  The instructor will 
always cause arms to be inspected after firing with cartridges, in order to observe if the fault has 
been committed, of putting three cartridges without a discharge, in the same piece, in which case 
the ball screw will be applied. 
83. It sometimes happens, when a cap has missed fire, that the tube is found stopped up 
with a hard, white, and compact powder; in this case, picking will be dispensed with, and a new 
cap substituted for the old one. 
 
LESSON THIRD. 
 
ARTICLE I. 
 
To Advance in Line of Battle. 
 
84. The company being in line of battle and correctly aligned, when the instructor shall 
wish to exercise it in marching by the front, he will assure himself that the shoulders of the 
captain and covering sergeant are perfectly in the direction of their respective ranks, and that the 
sergeant accurately covers the captain; the instructor will then place himself twenty-five or thirty 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
72
paces in front of them, face to the rear, and place himself exactly on the prolongation of the line 
passing between their heels. 
85. The instructor, being aligned on the directing file, will command: 
 
1. Company, forward. 
 
86. At this, a sergeant, previously designated, will move six paces in advance of the 
captain: the instructor, from the position prescribed, will correctly align this sergeant on the 
prolongation of the directing file. 
87. This advanced sergeant, who is to be charged with the direction, will, the moment his 
position is assured, take two points on the ground in the straight line, which would pass between 
his own and the heels of the instructor. 
88. These dispositions being made, the instructor will step aside, and command: 
 
2. MARCH. 
 
89. At this, the company will step off with life.  The directing sergeant will observe, with 
the greatest precision, the length and cadence of the step, marching on the two points he has 
chosen; he will take, in succession, and always a little before arriving at the point nearest to him, 
new points in advance, exactly in the same line with the first two, and at the distance of some 
fifteen or twenty paces from each other.  The captain will march steadily in the trace of the 
directing sergeant, keeping always six paces from him; the men will each maintain the head 
direct to the front, feel lightly the elbow of his neighbor on the side of direction, and conform 
himself to the principles prescribed in the S. S., for the march by the front. 
90. The man next to the captain will take special care not to pass him; to this end, he will 
keep the line of his shoulders a little in the rear, but in the same direction with those of the 
captain. 
91. The file closers will march at the habitual distance of two paces behind the rear-rank. 
92. If the men lose the step, the instructor will command: 
 
To the—STEP. 
 
93. At this command the men will glance toward the directing sergeant, retake the step 
from him, and again direct their eyes to the front. 
94. The instructor will cause the captain and covering sergeant to be posted sometimes 
on the right, and sometimes on the left of the company. 
95. The directing sergeant, in advance, having the greatest influence on the march of the 
company, he will be selected for the precision of his step, his habit of maintaining his shoulders 
in a square with a given line of direction, and of prolonging that line without variation. 
96. If this sergeant should fail to observe these principles, undulations in the front of the 
company must necessarily follow; the men will be unable to contract the habit of taking steps 
equal in length and swiftness, and of maintaining their shoulders in a square with the line of 
direction – the only means of attaining perfection in the march in line. 
97. The instructor, with a view the better to establish the men in the length and cadence 
of the step, and in the principles of the march in line, will cause the company to advance three or 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
73
four hundred paces, at once, without halting, if the ground will permit.  In the first exercises, he 
will march the company with open ranks, the better to observe the two ranks. 
98. The instructor will see, with care, that all the principles of the march in line are 
strictly observed; he will generally be on the directing flank, in a position to observe the two 
ranks, and the faults they may commit; he will sometimes halt behind the directing file during 
some thirty successive steps, in order to judge whether the directing sergeant, or the directing 
file, deviate from the perpendicular. 
 
ARTICLE II. 
 
To Halt the Company, Marching in Line of Battle, and to Align it. 
 
99. The instructor, wishing to halt the company, will command: 
 
1. Company.  2. HALT. 
 
100. At the second command, the company will halt; the directing sergeant will remain in 
advance, unless ordered to return to the line of file closers.  The company being at a halt, the 
instructor may advance the first three or four files on the side of direction, and align the company 
on that basis, or he may confine himself to causing the alignment to be rectified.  In this last case, 
he will command: Captain, rectify the alignment.  The captain will direct the covering 
sergeant to attend to the rear-rank, when each, glancing his eyes along his rank, will promptly 
rectify it, conforming to what is prescribed in the S. S., No. 329. 
 
ARTICLE III. 
 
Oblique March in Line of Battle. 
 
101. The company being in the direct march, when the instructor shall wish to cause it to 
march obliquely, he will command: 
 
1. Right (or left) oblique.  2. MARCH. 
 
102. At the command march, the company will take the oblique step.  The men will 
accurately observe the principles prescribed in the S. S., No. 340.  The rear-rank men will 
preserve their distances, and march in rear of the man next on the right (or left) of their habitual 
file leaders. 
103. When the instructor wishes the direct march to be resumed, he will command: 
 
1. Forward.  2. MARCH. 
 
104. At the command march, the company will resume the direct march.  The instructor 
will move briskly twenty paces in front of the captain, and facing the company, will place 
himself exactly in the prolongation of the captain and covering sergeant; and then, by a sign, will 
move the directing sergeant on the same line, if he be not already on it; the latter will 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
74
immediately take two points on the ground between himself and the instructor, and as he 
advances, will take new points of direction, as is explained No. 89. 
105. In the oblique march, the men not having the touch of elbows, the guide will always 
be on the side toward which the oblique is made, without any indication to that effect being 
given; and when the direct march is resumed, the guide will be, equally without indication, on 
the side where it was previous to the oblique. 
106. The instructor will, at first, cause the oblique to be made toward the side of the 
guide.  He will also direct the captain to have an eye on the directing sergeant, in order to keep 
on the same perpendicular line to the front with him, while following a parallel direction. 
107. During the continuance of the march, the instructor will be watchful that the men 
follow parallel directions, in conforming to the principles prescribed in the school of the soldier, 
for preserving the general alignment; whenever the men lose the alignment, he will be careful 
that they regain it by lengthening or shortening the step, without altering the cadence, or 
changing the direction. 
108. The instructor will place himself in front of the company and face to it, in order to 
regulate the march of the directing sergeant, or the man who is on the flank toward which the 
oblique is made, and to see that the principles of the march are properly observed, and that the 
files do not crowd. 
 
ARTICLE IV. 
 
To Mark Time, to March in Double Quick Time, and the Back Step. 
 
109. The company being in the direct march and in quick time, the instructor, to cause it 
to mark time, will command: 
 
1. Mark time.  2. MARCH. 
 
110. To resume the march, be will command: 
 
1. Forward.  2. MARCH. 
 
111. To cause the march in double quick time, the instructor will command:  
 
1. Double quick.  2. MARCH. 
 
112. The command march will be pronounced at the instant either foot is coming to the 
ground. 
113. To resume quick time, the instructor will command:  
 
1. Quick time.  2. MARCH. 
 
114. The command march will be pronounced at the instant either foot is coming to the 
ground. 
115. The company being at a halt, the instructor may cause it to march in the back step; 
to this effect, he will command: 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
75
 
1. Company backward.  2. MARCH. 
 
116. The back step will be executed according to the principles prescribed in the S. S., 
No. 256, but the use of it being rare, the instructor will not cause more than fifteen or twenty 
steps to be taken in succession, and to that extent but seldom. 
117. The instructor ought not to exercise the company in marching in double quick time, 
till the men are well established in the length and swiftness of the pace in quick-time; he will 
then endeavor to render the march of one hundred and sixty-five steps in the minute equally easy 
and familiar, and also cause them to observe the same erectness of body and composure of mind, 
as if marching in quick time. 
118. When marching in double quick time, if a subdivision (in a column) has to change 
direction by turning, or has to form into line, the men will quicken the pace to one hundred and 
eighty steps in a minute.  The same swiftness of step will be observed under all circumstances 
where great rapidity of movement is required.  But, as ranks of men cannot march any length of 
time at so swift a rate, without breaking or confusion, this acceleration will not be considered a 
prescribed exercise, and accordingly companies or battalions will only be habitually exercised in 
the double quick time of one hundred and sixty-five steps in the minute. 
 
ARTICLE V. 
 
To march in retreat. 
 
119. The company being halted and correctly aligned, when the instructor shall wish to 
cause it to march in retreat, he will command: 
 
1. Company.  2. About—FACE. 
 
120. The company having faced to the rear, the instructor will place himself in front of 
the directing file, conforming to what is prescribed No. 84. 
121. The instructor, being correctly established on the prolongation of the directing file, 
will command: 
 
3. Company, forward. 
 
122. At this, the directing sergeant will conform himself to what is prescribed Nos. 86 
and 87, with this difference – he will place himself six paces in front of the line of file closers, 
now leading. 
123. The covering sergeant will step into the line of file closers, opposite to his interval, 
and the captain will place himself in the rear-rank, now become the front. 
124. This disposition being promptly made, the instructor will command:  
 
4. MARCH. 
 
125. At this, the directing sergeant, the captain, and the men, will conform themselves to 
what is prescribed No. 89, and following. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
76
126. The instructor will cause to be executed, marching in retreat, all that is prescribed 
for marching in advance; the commands and the means of execution will be the same.  When 
marching in open order, the captain will remain in the front, and the covering sergeant in the 
rear-rank. 
127. The instructor having halted the company, will, when he may wish, cause it to face 
to the front, by the commands prescribed No. 119.  The captain, the covering sergeant, and the 
directing sergeant, will resume their habitual places in line, the moment they shall have faced 
about. 
128. The company being in march by the front-rank, if the instructor should wish it to 
march in retreat, he will cause the right about to be executed while marching, and to this effect 
will command: 
 
1. Company.  2. Right about.  3. MARCH. 
 
129. At the third command, the company will promptly face about, and recommence the 
march by the rear-rank. 
130. The directing sergeant will face about with the company, and will move rapidly six 
paces in front of the file closers, and upon the prolongation of the guide.  The instructor will 
place him in the proper direction by the means prescribed No. 104.  The captain, the covering 
sergeant, and the men, will conform to the principles prescribed for the march in retreat. 
131. When the instructor wishes the company to march by the front-rank, be will give the 
same commands, and will regulate the direction of the march by the same means. 
132. The company being in march either by the front or rear-rank, and if the instructor 
should wish to face it about without continuing the march, he will command: 
 
1. Company.  2. Right about.  3. HALT. 
 
133. At the command halt, the company will face about, and the men will conform to 
what is prescribed in the S. S., No. 355. 
134. The instructor will cause to be executed in double quick time, all the movements 
prescribed in the 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th lessons of this school, with the exception of the march 
backwards, which will be executed only in quick time.  He will give the same commands, 
observing to add double quick before the command march. 
135. When the pieces are carried on the right shoulder, in quick time, the distance 
between the ranks will be sixteen inches.  Whenever, therefore, the instructor brings the 
company from a shoulder to this position, the rear-rank must shorten a little the first steps in 
order to gain the prescribed distance, and will lengthen the steps, on the contrary, in order to 
close up when the pieces are again brought to a shoulder.  In marching in double quick time, the 
distance between the ranks will be twenty-six inches, and the pieces will be carried habitually on 
the right shoulder. 
136. Whenever a company is halted, the men will bring their pieces at once to a shoulder 
at the command halt.  The rear-rank will close to its proper distance.  These rules are general. 
 
LESSON FOURTH. 
 
ARTICLE I. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
77
 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
78
To march by the flank. 
 
137. The company being in line of battle, and at a halt, when the instructor shall wish to 
cause it to march by the right flank, he will command: 
 
1. Company, right—FACE.  2. Forward.  3. MARCH. 
 
138. At the first command, the company will face to the right, the covering sergeant will 
place himself at the head of the front-rank, the captain having stepped out for the purpose, so far 
as to find himself by the side of the sergeant, and on his left; the front-rank will double, as is 
prescribed in the S. S., No. 363; the rear-rank will, at the same time, side-step to the right one 
pace, and double in the same manner; so that when the movement is completed, the files will be 
formed of four men aligned, and elbow to elbow.  The intervals will be preserved.  
139. The file closers will also move by side step to the right, so that when the ranks are 
formed, they will be two paces from the rearmost rank. 
140. At the command march, the company will move off briskly in quick time; the 
covering sergeant at the head of the front-rank, and the captain on his left will march straight-
forward.  The men of each file will march abreast of their respective front-rank men, heads direct 
to the front; the file closers will march opposite their places in line of battle. 
141. The instructor will cause the principles of the march by the flank to be observed, in 
placing himself, pending the march, as prescribed in the S. S., No. 368. 
142. The instructor will cause the march by the left flank to be executed by the same 
commands, substituting left for right; the ranks will double, as has been prescribed in the S. S., 
No. 365; the rear-rank will side-step to the left one pace before doubling. 
143. At the instant the company faces to the left, the left guide will place himself at the 
head of the front-rank; the captain will pass rapidly to the left, and place himself by the right side 
of this guide; the covering sergeant will replace the captain in the front-rank, the moment the 
latter quits it to go to the left. 
 
ARTICLE II. 
 
To change direction by file. 
 
144. The company being faced by the flank, and either in march, or at a halt, when the 
instructor shall wish to cause it to wheel by file, he will command: 
 
1. By file, left (or right).  2. MARCH. 
 
145. At the command march, the first file will wheel; if to the side of the front-rank man, 
the latter will take care not to turn at once, but to describe a short are of a circle, shortening a 
little the first five or six steps in order to give time to the fourth man of this file to conform 
himself to the movement.  If the wheel be to the side of the rear-rank, the front-rank man will 
wheel in the step of twenty-eight inches, and the fourth man will conform himself to the 
movement by describing a short are of a circle, as has been explained.  Each file will come to 
wheel on the same ground where that which preceded it wheeled. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
79
146. The instructor will see that the wheel be executed according to these principles, in 
order that the distance between the files may always be preserved, and that there be no check or 
hindrance at the wheeling point. 
 
ARTICLE III. 
 
To halt the company marching by the flank, and to face it to the front. 
 
147. To effect these objectives, the instructor will command: 
 
1. Company.  2. HALT.  3. FRONT. 
 
148. The second and third commands will be executed as prescribed in the S. S., Nos. 
370 and 371.  As soon as the files have undoubled the rear-rank will close to its proper distance.  
The captain and covering sergeant, as well as the left guide, if the march be by the left flank, will 
return to their habitual places in line, at the instant the company faces to the front. 
149. The instructor may then align the company by one of the means prescribed No. 100. 
 
ARTICLE IV. 
 
The company being in march by the flank, to form it on the right (or left) 
by file into line of battle. 
 
150. If the company be marching by the right flank, the instructor will command: 
 
1. On the right, by file into line.  2. MARCH. 
 
151. At the command march, the rear-rank men doubled, will mark time; the captain and 
the covering sergeant will turn to the right, march straight-forward, and be halted by the 
instructor when they shall have passed at least six paces beyond the rank of file closers; the 
captain will place himself correctly on the line of battle, and will direct the alignment as the men 
of the front-rank successively arrive; the covering sergeant will place himself behind the captain 
at the distance of the rear-rank; the two men on the right of the front-rank doubled, will continue 
to march, and passing beyond the covering sergeant and the captain, will turn to the right; after 
turning, they will continue to march elbow to elbow, and direct themselves toward the line of 
battle, but when they shall arrive at two paces from this line, the even number will shorten the 
step so that the odd number may precede him on the line, the odd number placing himself by the 
side and on the left of the captain; the even number will afterward oblique to the left, and place 
himself on the left of the odd number; the next two men of the front-rank doubled, will pass in 
the same manner behind the two first, turn then to the right, and place themselves, according to 
the means just explained to the left, and by the side of, the two men already established on the 
line; the remaining files of this rank will follow in succession, and be formed to the left in the 
same manner.  The rear-rank doubled will execute the movement in the manner already 
explained for the front-rank, taking care not to commence the movement until four men of the 
front-rank are established on the line of battle; the rear-rank men, as they arrive on the line, will 
cover accurately their file leaders. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
80
 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
81
152. If the company be marching by the left flank, the instructor will cause it to form by 
file on the left into line of battle, according to the same principles and by the same commands, 
substituting the indication left for right.  In this case, the odd numbers will shorten the step, so 
that the even numbers may precede them on the line.  The captain, placed on the left, of the 
front-rank, and the left guide, will return to their places in line of battle, by order of the 
instructor, after the company shall be formed and aligned. 
153. To enable the men the better to comprehend the mechanism of this movement, the 
instructor will at first cause it to be executed separately by each rank doubled, and afterward by 
the two ranks united and doubled. 
154. The instructor will place himself on the line of battle, and without the point where 
the right or left is to rest, in order to establish the base of the alignment, and afterward he will 
follow up the movement to assure himself that each file conforms itself to what is prescribed No. 
151. 
 
ARTICLE V. 
 
The company being in march by the flank, to form it by company, or by 
platoon, into line, and to cause it to face to the right and left in marching. 
 
155. The company being in march by the right flank, the instructor will order the captain 
to form it into line; the captain will immediately command: 
 
1. By company, into line.  2. MARCH. 
 
156. At the command march, the covering sergeant will continue to march straight-
forward; the men will advance the right shoulder take the double quick step, and move into line 
by the shortest route, taking care to undouble the files, and to come on the line one after the 
other. 
157. As the front-rank men successively arrive in line with the covering sergeant, they 
will take from him the step, and then turn their eyes to the front. 
158. The men of the rear-rank will conform to the movements of their respective file 
leaders, but without endeavoring to arrive in line at the same time with the latter. 
159. If the company, marching either by the right or left flank, be faced about previous to 
forming line, the men will come into line by twos, and according to the means as above 
indicated, taking care to undouble files, the two front-rank men taking their places in the line at 
the same time, to be covered by their rear-rank men taking an oblique step. 
160. At the instant the movement begins, the captain will face to his company in order to 
follow up the execution; and, as soon as the company is formed, he will command, guide left, 
place himself two paces before the centre, face to the front, and take the step of the company. 
161. At the command guide left, the second sergeant will promptly place himself in the 
front-rank, on the left, to serve as guide, and the covering sergeant who is on the opposite flank 
will remain there. 
 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
82
 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
83
162. When the company marches by the left flank, this movement will be executed by 
the same commands, and according to the same principles; the company being formed, the 
captain will command guide right, and place himself in front of his company as above; the 
covering sergeant who is on the right of the front-rank will serve as guide, and the second 
sergeant placed on the left flank will remain there. 
163. Thus, in a column by company, right or left in front, the covering sergeant and the 
second sergeant of each company will always be placed on the right and left, respectively, of the 
front-rank; they will be denominated right guide, and left guide, and the one or the other charged 
with the direction. 
164. The company being in march by the flank if it be the wish of the instructor to cause 
it to form platoons, he will give an order to that effect to the captain, who will command: 
 
1. By platoon, into line.  2. MARCH. 
 
165. The movement will be executed by each platoon according to the above principles.  
The captain will place himself before the centre of the first platoon, and the first lieutenant 
before the centre of the second, passing through the opening made in the centre of the company, 
if the march be by the right flank, and around the left of his platoon, if the march be by the left: 
in this last case, the captain will also pass around the left of the second platoon, in order to place 
himself in front of the first.  Both the captain and lieutenant, without waiting for each other, will 
command guide left (or right) at the instant their respective platoons are formed. 
166. At the command guide left (or right), the guide of each platoon will pass rapidly to 
the indicated flank if not already there. 
167. The right guide of the company will always serve as the guide of the right or left of 
the first platoon, and the left guide of the company will serve, in like manner, as the guide of the 
second platoon. 
168. Thus in a column, by platoon, there will be but one guide to each platoon; he will 
always be placed on its left flank, if the right be in front, and on the right flank, if the left be in 
front. 
169. In these movements, the file closers will follow the platoons to which they are 
attached. 
170. The instructor may cause the company, marching by the flank, to form by company, 
or by platoon, into line, by his own direct commands, using those prescribed for the captain, No. 
155 or 164. 
171. The instructor will exercise the company in passing, without a halt, from the march 
by the front, to the march by the flank, and reciprocally.  In either case, he will employ the 
commands prescribed in the S. S., No. 374, substituting company for squad.  The company will 
face to the right or left, in marching, and the captain, the guides, and file-closers, will conform 
themselves to what is prescribed for each in the march by the flank, or in the march by the front 
of a company supposed to be a subdivision of a column. 
172. If, after facing to the right or left, in marching, the company find itself faced by the 
rear-rank, the captain will place himself two paces behind the centre of the front-rank, now in the 
rear, the guides will pass to the rear-rank, now leading, and the file closers will march in front of 
this rank. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
84
173. The company being in march either by the front or flank, and if the instructor should 
wish to face it by a flank without continuing the march it will be executed by the commands and 
means prescribed in the S. S., Nos. 379-380, substituting company for squad. 
174. The company marching in column by platoon, can be faced to the right or left, by 
the commands, as above indicated.  At the first command, the chiefs of platoons and the guides, 
will go quickly to the indicated flank.  At the command march, each subdivision will face, and 
be led off in the new direction by its chief.  If the right be in front, the subdivision can be filed to 
the left, immediately after being faced either to the right or left, by the command by file left 
before the command march.  If the left be in front, the command will be by file right before the 
command march. 
175. The instructor, in order to avoid fatiguing the men and to prevent them from being 
negligent in the position of shoulder arms, will sometimes order support arms in marching by the 
flank, and arms on the right shoulder, when marching in line. 
 
LESSON FIFTH. 
 
ARTICLE I. 
 
To break into column by platoon, either at a halt or on march. 
 
176. The company being at a halt, in line of battle, the instructor, wishing to break it into 
column, by platoon to the right, will command: 
 
1. By platoon, right wheel.  2. MARCH. 
 
177. At the first command, the chiefs of platoon will rapidly place themselves two paces 
before the centres of their respective platoons, the lieutenant passing around the left of the 
company.  They need not occupy themselves with dressing one upon the other.  The covering 
sergeant will replace the captain in the front-rank.  
178. At the command march, the right front-rank man of each platoon will face to the 
right, the covering sergeant standing fast; the chief of each platoon will move quickly by the 
shortest line, a little beyond the point at which the marching flank will rest when the wheel shall 
be completed, face to the late rear, and place himself so that the line which he forms with the 
man on the right (who had faced), shall be perpendicular to that occupied by the company in line 
of battle; each platoon will wheel according to the principles prescribed for the wheel on a fixed 
pivot, and when the man who conducts the marching flank shall approach near to the 
perpendicular, its chief will command: 
 
1. Platoon.  2. HALT. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
85
 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
86
179. At the command halt, which will be given at the instant the man who conducts the 
marching flank shall have arrived at three paces from the perpendicular, the platoon will halt; the 
covering sergeant will move to the point where the left of the first platoon is to rest, passing by 
the front-rank; the second sergeant will place himself, in like manner, in respect to the second 
platoon.  Each will take care to leave between himself and the man on the right of his platoon a 
space equal to its front; the captain and first lieutenant will look to this, and each take care to 
align the sergeant between himself and the man of the platoon who had faced to the right. 
180. The guide of each platoon, being thus established on the perpendicular, each chief 
will place himself two paces outside of his guide, and, facing toward him, will command: 
 
3. Left—DRESS. 
 
181. The alignment being ended, each chief of platoon will command, FRONT, and 
place himself two paces before its centre. 
182. The file closers will conform themselves to the movement of their respective, 
platoons, preserving always the distance of two paces from the rear-rank. 
183. The company will break by platoon to the left, according to the same principles.  
The instructor will command: 
 
1. By platoon, left wheel.  2. MARCH. 
 
184. The first command will be executed in the same manner as if breaking by platoon 
right. 
185. At the command march, the left front-rank man of each platoon will face to the left, 
and the platoons will wheel to the left, according to the principles prescribed for the wheel on a 
fixed pivot; the chiefs of platoon will conform to the principles indicated Nos. 178 and 179. 
186. At the command halt, given by the chief of each platoon, the covering sergeant on 
the right of the front-rank of the first platoon, and the second sergeant near the left of the second 
platoon, will each move to the points where the right of his platoon is to rest.  The chief of each 
platoon should be careful to align the sergeant between himself and the man of the platoon who 
had faced to the left, and will then command: 
 
Right—DRESS. 
 
187. The platoons being aligned, each chief of platoon will command, FRONT, and 
place himself opposite its centre. 
188. The instructor wishing to break the company by platoon to the right, and to move 
the column forward after the wheel is completed, will caution the company to that effect, and 
command: 
 
1. By platoon, right wheel.  2. MARCH. 
 
189. At the first command, the chiefs of platoon will move rapidly in front of their 
respective platoons, conforming to what has been prescribed No. 177, and will remain in this 
position during the continuance of the wheel.  The covering sergeant will replace the chief of the 
first platoon in the front-rank. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
87
190. At the command march the platoons will wheel to the right, conforming to the 
principle herein prescribed; the man on the pivot will not face to the right, but will mark time, 
conforming himself to the movement of the marching flank; and when the man who is on the left 
of this flank shall arrive near the perpendicular, the instructor will command: 
 
3. Forward.  4. MARCH.  5. Guide left. 
 
191. At the fourth command which will be given at the instant the wheel is completed, 
the platoons will move straight to the front, all the men taking the step of twenty-eight inches.  
The covering sergeant and the second sergeant will move rapidly to the left of their respective 
platoons, the former passing before the front-rank.  The leading guide will immediately take 
points on the ground in the direction which may be indicated to him by the instructor. 
192. At the fifth command, the men will take the touch of elbows lightly to the left. 
193. If the guide of the second platoon should lose his distance, or the line of direction, 
he will conform to the principles hereinafter prescribed, Nos. 207 and 208. 
194. If the company be marching in line to the front, the instructor will cause it to break 
by platoon to the right by the same commands.  At the command march, the platoons will wheel 
in the manner already explained; the man on the pivot will take care, to mark time in his place, 
without advancing or receding; the instructor, the chiefs of platoon, and the guides, will conform 
to what has been prescribed Nos. 189, and following. 
195. The company may be broken by platoons to his left, according to the same 
principles, and by inverse means, the instructor giving the command prescribed Nos. 188 and 
190, substituting left, for right, and reciprocally. 
196. The movements explained in Nos. 188 and 194 will only be executed after the 
company has become well established in the principles of the march in column, Articles Second 
and Third. 
 
REMARKS. 
 
197. The instructor, placed in front of the company, will observe whether the movement 
be executed according to the principles prescribed above; whether the platoons, after breaking 
into column, are perpendicular to the line of battle just occupied; and whether the guide, who 
placed himself where the marching flank of his platoon had to rest, has left, between himself and 
his front-rank man on the right (or left), the space necessary to contain the front of the platoon. 
198. After the platoons have broken, if the rearmost guide should not accurately cover 
the leading one, he will not seek to correct his position, till the column be put in march, unless 
the instructor, wishing to wheel immediately into line, should think it necessary to rectify the 
direction of the guides, which would be executed as will be hereinafter explained in Article V. of 
this Lesson. 
199. The instructor will observe, that the man on the right (or left) of each platoon, who, 
at the command march, faces to the right (or left) being the true pivot of the wheel, the front-rank 
man next to him ought to gain a little ground to the front in wheeling, so as to clear the pivot-
man. 
 
 
 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
88
ARTICLE II. 
 
To march in column. 
 
200. The company having broken by platoon, right (or left) in front, the instructor, 
wishing to cause the column to march, will place himself twenty-five or thirty paces in front, 
face to the guides, establish himself correctly, on their direction, and caution the leading guide to 
take points on the ground. 
201. The instructor being thus placed, the guide of the leading platoon will take two 
points on the ground in the straight line passing between his own and the heels of the instructor. 
202. These dispositions being made, the instructor will step aside, and command: 
 
1. Column, forward.  2. Guide left (or right).  3. MARCH. 
 
203. At the command march, promptly repeated by the chiefs of platoon, they, as well as 
the guides, will lead off, by a decided step, their respective platoons, in order that the whole may, 
move smartly, and at the same moment. 
204. The men will each feel lightly the elbow of his neighbor toward the guide, and 
conform himself, in marching, to the principles prescribed in the S. S., No. 336.  The man next to 
the guide, in each platoon, will take care never to pass him, and also to march always about six 
inches to the right (or left) from him, in order not to push him out of the direction. 
205. The leading guide will observe, with the precision, the length and cadence of the 
step, and maintain the direction of his march by the means prescribed No. 89. 
206. The following guide will march exactly in the trace of the leading one, preserving 
between the latter and himself a distance precisely equal to the front of his platoon, and marching 
in his same step with the leading guide. 
207. If the following guide lose his distance from the one leading (which can only 
happen by his own fault), he will correct himself by slightly lengthening or shortening a few 
steps, in order that there may not be sudden quickenings or slackenings in the march of his 
platoon. 
208. If the same guide, having neglected to march exactly in the trace of the preceding 
one, find himself sensibly out of the direction, he will remedy this fault by advancing more or 
less the shoulder opposite to the true direction, and thus, with few steps, insensibly regain it, 
without the inconvenience of the oblique step, which would cause a loss of distance.  In all cases, 
each chief of platoon will cause it to conform to the movements of its guide. 
 
REMARKS ON THE MARCH IN COLUMN. 
 
209. If the chiefs and guides of subdivisions neglect to lead off, and to decide the march 
from the first step, the march will be begun in uncertainty, which will cause waverings, a loss of 
step, and a loss of distance. 
210. If the leading guide take unequal steps, the march of his subdivision, and that which 
follows, will be uncertain; there will be undulations, quickenings, and slackenings in the march. 
211. If the same guide be not habituated to prolong a given direction, without deviation, 
he will describe a crooked line, and the column must wind to conform itself to such line. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
89
212. If the following guide be not habituated to march in the trace of the preceding one, 
he will lose his distance at every moment in endeavors to regain the trace, the preservation of 
which is the most important principle in the march in column. 
213. The guide of each subdivision in column will be responsible for the direction, 
distance, and step; the chief of the subdivision, for the order and conformity of his subdivision 
with the movements of the guide.  Accordingly, the chief will frequently turn, in the march, to 
observe his subdivision. 
214. The instructor, placed on the flank of the guides, will watch over the execution of all 
the principles prescribed; he will, also, sometimes place himself in the rear, align himself on the 
guides, and halt, pending some thirty paces together to verify the accuracy of the guides. 
215. In column, chiefs of subdivision will always repeat, with the greatest promptitude, 
the commands march and halt, no chief waiting for another but each repeating the command the 
moment be catches it from the instructor.  They will repeat no other command given by him; but 
will explain, if necessary, to their subdivisions, in an under tone of voice, what they will have to 
execute, as indicated by the commands of caution. 
 
ARTICLE III. 
 
To change direction. 
 
216. The changes of direction of a column marching, will be executed according to the 
principles prescribed for wheeling on the march.  Whenever, therefore, a column is to change 
direction, the instructor will change the guide, if not already there, to the flank opposite the side 
to which the change is to be made. 
217. The column being in march right in front, if it be the wish of the instructor to change 
direction to the right, he will give the order to the chief of the first platoon, and immediately go 
himself, or send a marker to the point at which the change of direction is to be made; the 
indicator or marker, will place himself on the direction of the guides, so as to present the breast 
to that flank of the column. 
218. The leading guide will direct his march on that person, so that, in passing, his left 
arm may just graze his breast.  When the leading guide shall have approached near to the marker, 
the chief of his platoon will command: 
 
1. Right wheel.  2. MARCH. 
 
219. The first command will be given when the platoon is at the distance of four paces 
from the marker. 
220. At the command march, which will be pronounced at the instant the guide shall 
have arrived opposite the marker, the platoon will wheel to the right, conforming to what is 
prescribed in the S. S., No. 409. 
221. The wheel being finished, the chief of each platoon will command: 
 
3. Forward.  4. MARCH. 
 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
90
222. These commands will be pronounced and executed as is prescribed in the S. S., Nos. 
411 and 412.  The guide of the first platoon will take points on the ground in the new direction, 
in order the better to regulate the march. 
223. The second platoon will continue to march straight-forward till up with the marker, 
when it will wheel to the right, and retake the direct march by the same commands and the same 
means which governed the first platoon. 
224. The column being in march right in front, if the instructor should wish to change 
direction to the left) he will command, guide right.  At this command, the two guides will move 
rapidly to the right of their respective platoons, each passing in front of his subdivision; the men 
will take the touch of elbows to the right; the instructor will afterwards conform to what is 
prescribed No. 217. 
225. The change of direction to the left will then be executed according to the same 
principles as the change of direction to the right, but by inverse means. 
226. When the change of direction is completed, the instructor will command, guide left. 
227. The changes of direction in a column, left in front, will be executed according to the 
same principles. 
228. In changes of direction in double quick time the platoon will wheel according to the 
principles prescribed in the S. S., No. 417. 
229. In order to prepare the men for those formations in line, which can be executed only 
by turning to the right or the left, the instructor will sometimes cause the column to change 
direction to the side of the guide.  In this case, his chief of the leading platoon will command: 
Left (or right) turn, instead of left (or right) wheel. The subdivisions will each turn, in 
succession; conforming to what is prescribed in the S. S., No. 415.  The leading guide, as soon as 
he has turned, will take points on the ground, the better to regulate the direction of the march. 
230. It is highly important, in order to preserve distances and the direction, that all the 
subdivisions of the column should change direction precisely at the point where the leading 
subdivision changed; it is for this reason that that point ought to be marked in advance, and that 
it is prescribed that the guides direct their march on the marker, also that each chief of 
subdivision shall not cause the change to commence till, the guide of his subdivision has grazed 
the breast of this marker. 
231. Each chief will take care that his subdivision arrives at the point of change in a 
square with the line of direction: with this view, he will face to his subdivision when the one 
which precedes has commenced to turn or to wheel, and he will be watchful that it continues to 
march squarely until it arrives at the point where the change of direction is to commence. 
232. If, in changes of direction, the pivot of the subdivision which wheels should not 
clear the wheeling point, the next subdivision would be arrested and distances lost; for the guide 
who conducts the marching rank having to describe an arc in length about once and a half the 
front of the subdivision, the second subdivision would be already up with the wheeling point, 
whilst the first which wheels has yet the half of its front to execute, and hence would be obliged 
to mark time until that half be executed.  It is therefore prescribed, that the pivot of each 
subdivision should take steps of nine or eleven inches in length, according to the swiftness of the 
gait, in order not to arrest the march of the next subdivision.  The chiefs of subdivision will look 
well to the step of the pivot, and cause his step to be lengthened or shortened as may be judged 
necessary.  By the nature of this movement, the centre of each subdivision will bend a little to the 
rear. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
91
233. The guides will never alter the length or the cadence of the step, whether the change 
of direction be to the side of the guide or to the opposite side. 
234. The marker, placed at the wheeling point, will always present his breast to the flank 
of the column.  The instructor will take the greatest pains in causing the prescribed principles to 
be observed; he will see that each subdivision only commences the change of direction when the 
guide, grazing the breast of the marker, has nearly passed him, and, that the marching flank does 
not describe the are of too large a circle, in order that it may not be thrown beyond the new 
direction. 
235. In change of direction by wheel, the guide of the wheeling flank will cast his eyes 
over the ground at the moment of commencing the wheel, and will describe an are of a circle 
whose radius is equal to the front of the subdivision. 
 
ARTICLE IV. 
 
To halt the column. 
 
236. The column being in march, when the instructor shall wish to halt it, he will 
command: 
 
1. Column.  2. HALT. 
 
237. At the second command, promptly repeated by the chiefs of platoon, the column 
will halt; the guides also will stand fast, although they may have lost both distance and direction. 
238. If the command halt be not repeated with the greatest vivacity, and executed at the 
same instant, distances will be lost. 
239. If a guide, having lost his distance, seek to recover it after that command, he will 
only throw his fault on the following guide, who, if he have marched well, will no longer be at 
his proper distance; and if the latter regain what he has thus lost, the movement will be 
propagated to the rear of the column. 
 
ARTICLE V. 
 
Being in column by platoon, to form to the right or left into line of battle, 
either at a halt, or on the march. 
 
240. The instructor having halted the column right in front, and wishing to form it into 
line of battle, will place himself at platoon distance in front of the leading guide, face to him, and 
rectify, if necessary, the position of the guide beyond, which being executed, he will command: 
 
Left—DRESS. 
 
241. At this command, which will not be repeated by the chiefs of platoon, each of them 
will place himself briskly two paces outside of his guide, and direct the alignment of the platoon 
perpendicular to the direction of the column. 
242. Each chief having aligned his platoon, will command FRONT, and return quickly 
to his place in column. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
92
 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
93
243. This disposition being made, the instructor will command: 
 
1. Left into line, wheel.  2. MARCH. 
 
244. At the command march, briskly repeated by the chiefs of platoon, the front-rank 
man on the left of each platoon will face to the left, and place his breast lightly against the arm of 
the guide by his side, who stands fast; the platoons will wheel to the left on the principle of 
wheels from a halt, and in conformity to what is prescribed in No. 199.  Each chief will turn to 
his platoon to observe its movement, and when the marching flank has approached near the line 
of battle, he will command: 
 
1. Platoon.  2. HALT. 
 
245. The command halt, will be given when the marching flank of the platoon is three 
paces from the line of battle.  
246. The chief of the second platoon, having halted it, will return to his place as a file 
closer, passing around the left of his subdivision.  
247. The captain having halted the first platoon, will move rapidly to the point at which 
the right of the company will rest in line of battle, and command: 
 
Right—DRESS. 
 
248. At this command, the two platoons will dress up on the alignment; the front-rank 
man on the right of the leading platoon, who finds himself opposite the instructor established on 
the direction of the guides, will place his breast lightly against the left arm of this officer.  The 
captain will direct the alignment from the right on the man on the opposite flank of the company. 
249. The company being aligned, the captain will command: 
 
FRONT. 
 
250. The instructor seeing the company in line of battle, will command: 
 
Guides—POSTS. 
 
251. At this command, the covering sergeant will cover the captain, and the left guide 
will return to his place as a file closer. 
252. If the column be left in front, and the instructor should wish to form it to the right 
into line of battle, he will place himself at platoon distance in front of the leading guide, face to 
him, and rectify, if necessary the position of the guide beyond; which being executed, he will 
command: 
 
1. Right into line, wheel.  2. MARCH. 
 
253. At the command march, the front-rank man on the right of each platoon will face to 
the right and place his breast lightly against the left arm of the guide by his side, who stands fast; 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
94
each platoon will wheel to the right, and will be halted by its chief, when the marching flank has 
approached near the line of battle; for this purpose the chief of each platoon will command: 
 
1. Platoon.  2. HALT. 
 
254. The command halt, will be given when the marching flank of the platoon is three 
paces from the line of battle.  The chief of the second platoon having halted his platoon, will 
resume his place in the rank of file closers. 
255. The captain having halted the first platoon, will move briskly to the point at which 
the left of the company will rest, and command: 
 
Left—DRESS. 
 
256. At this command, the two platoons will dress up on the alignment; the man on the 
left of the second platoon, opposite the instructor, will place his breast lightly against the right 
arm of this officer, and the captain will direct the alignment from the left on the man on the 
opposite flank of the company. 
257. The company being aligned, the captain will command: 
 
FRONT. 
 
258. The instructor will afterwards command: 
 
Guides—POSTS. 
 
259. At this command, the captain will move to the right of his company, the covering 
sergeant will cover him, and the left guide will return to his place as a file closer. 
260. The instructor may omit the command left or right dress, previous to commanding 
left or right into line, wheel, unless after rectifying the position of the guides, it should become 
necessary to dress the platoons, or one of them, laterally to the right or left. 
261. The instructor, before the command left (or right) into line, wheel, will assure 
himself that the rearmost platoon is at its exact wheeling distance from the one in front.  This 
attention is important, in order to detect negligence on the part of guides in this essential point. 
262. If the column be marching right in front, and the instructor should wish to form it 
into line without halting the column, he will give the commands prescribed No. 243, and move 
rapidly to platoon distance in front of the leading guide. 
263. At the command march, briskly repeated by the chiefs of platoon, the left guides 
will halt short, the instructor, the chiefs of platoon and the platoons, will conform to what is 
prescribed No. 244 and following. 
264. If the column be in march left in front, this formation will be made according to the 
same principles, and by inverse means. 
265. If the column be marching right in front, and the instructor should wish to form it 
into line without halting the column, and to march the company in line to the front, he will 
command: 
 
1. By platoons left wheel.  2. MARCH. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
95
 
266. At the command march, briskly repeated by the chiefs of platoon, the left guides 
will halt: the man next to the left guide in each platoon will mark time: the platoons will wheel to 
the left, conforming to the principles of the wheel on a fixed pivot.  When the right of the 
platoons shall arrive near the line of battle, the instructor will command: 
 
3.  Forward.  4. MARCH.  5. Guides right (or left). 
 
267. At the fourth command, given at the instant the wheel is completed, all the men of 
the company will move off together with the step of twenty-eight inches; the captain, the chief of 
the second platoon, the covering sergeant, and the left guide will take their positions as in line of 
battle. 
268. At the fifth command, which will be given immediately after the fourth, the captain 
and covering sergeant, if not already there, will move briskly to the side on which the guide is 
designated The non-commissioned officer charged with the direction will move rapidly in front 
of the guide, and will be assured in his line of march by the instructor, as is prescribed No. 104.  
That non-commissioned officer will immediately take points on the ground as indicated in the 
same number.  The men will take the touch of elbows to the side of the guide, conforming 
themselves to the principles of the march in line. 
269. The same principles are applicable to a column left in front. 
 
LESSON SIXTH. 
 
ARTICLE I. 
 
To break the company into platoons, and to reform the company. 
 
TO BREAK THE COMPANY INTO PLATOONS. 
 
270. The company marching in the cadenced step, and supposed to make part of a 
column, right in front, when the instructor shall wish to cause it to break by platoon, he will give 
the order to the captain, who will command: 1. Break into platoons, and immediately place 
himself before the centre of the first platoon.  
271. At the command break into platoons, the first lieutenant will pass quickly around 
the left to the centre of his platoon, and give the caution: Mark time. 
272. The captain will then command: 2. March. 
273. The first platoon will continue to march straight-forward; the covering sergeant will 
move rapidly to the left flank of this platoon (passing by the front-rank) as soon as the flank shall 
be disengaged. 
274. At the command march, given by the captain, the second platoon will begin to mark 
time; its chief will immediately add: 1. Right oblique.  2. MARCH.  The last command will 
be given so that this platoon may commence obliquing the instant the rear-rank of the first 
platoon shall have passed.  The men will shorten the step in obliquing, so that when the 
command forward march is given, the platoon may have its exact distance. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
96
 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
97
275. The guide of the second platoon being near the direction of the guide of the first, the 
chief of the second will command Forward and add MARCH, the instant that the guide of his 
platoon shall cover the guide of the first. 
276. In a column, left in front, the company will break into platoons by inverse means, 
applying to the first platoon all that has been prescribed for the second, and reciprocally. 
277. In this case, the left guide of the company will shift to the right flank of the second 
platoon, and the covering sergeant will remain on the right of the first. 
 
TO RE-FORM THE COMPANY. 
 
278. The column, by platoon, being in march, right in front, when the instructor shall 
wish to cause it to form company, he will give the order to the captain, who will command: 
 
Form company. 
 
279. Having given this command, the captain will immediately add: 
 
1. First platoon; 2. Right oblique. 
 
280. The chief of the second platoon will caution it to continue to march straight-
forward. 
281. The captain will then command: 
 
3. MARCH. 
 
282. At this command, repeated by the chief of the second, the first platoon will oblique 
to the right, in order to unmask the second; the covering sergeant, on the left of the first platoon, 
will return to the right of the company, passing by the front-rank. 
283. When the first platoon shall have nearly unmasked the second, the captain will 
command: 1. Mark time, and at the instant the unmasking shall be complete, he will add: 2. 
MARCH.  The first platoon will then cease to oblique, and mark time. 
284. In the mean time the second platoon will have continued to march straight-forward, 
and when it shall be nearly up with the first, the captain will command Forward, and at the 
instant the two platoons shall unite, add MARCH; the first platoon will then cease to mark time. 
285. In a column, left in front, the same movement will be executed by inverse means, 
the chief of the second platoon giving the command Forward, and the captain adding the 
command MARCH, when the platoons are united. 
286. The guide of the second platoon, on its right, will pass to its left flank the moment 
the platoon begins to oblique; the guide of the first, on its right, remaining on that flank of the 
platoon. 
287. The instructor will also sometimes cause the company to break and re-form, by 
platoon, by his own direct commands.  In this case, he will give the general commands 
prescribed for the captain above: 1. Break into platoons; 2. MARCH; and 1. Form 
company; 2. MARCH. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
98
288. If, in breaking the company into platoons, the subdivision that breaks off should 
mark time too long, it might, in a column of many subdivisions, arrest the in arch of the 
following one, which would cause a lengthening of the column, and a loss of distances. 
289. In breaking into platoons, it is necessary that the platoons which oblique should not 
shorten the step too much, in order not to lose distance in column, and not to arrest the march of 
the following subdivision. 
290. If a platoon obliques too far to a flank, it would be obliged to oblique again to the 
opposite flank, to regain the direction and by the double movement arrest, probably, the march of 
the following subdivision. 
291. The chiefs of those platoons which oblique will face to their platoons, in order to 
enforce the observance of the foregoing principles. 
292. When, in a column of several companies, they break in succession, it is of the 
greatest importance that each company should continue to march in the same step, without 
shortening or slackening, whilst that which precedes breaks, although the following company 
should close up on the preceding one.  This attention is essential to guard against an elongation 
of the column. 
293. Faults of but little moment, in a column of a few companies, would be serious 
inconveniences in a general column of many battalions.  Hence the instructor will give the 
greatest care in causing all the prescribed principles to be strictly observed.  To this end, he will 
hold himself on the directing flank, the better to observe all the movements. 
 
ARTICLE II. 
 
Being in column, to break files to the rear, and to cause them to re-enter 
into line. 
 
294. The company being in march, and supposed to constitute a subdivision of a column, 
right (or left) in front, when the instructor shall wish to cause files to break off, be will give the 
order to the captain, who will immediately turn to his company, and command: 
 
1. Two files from left (or right) to rear.  2. MARCH. 
 
295. At the command march, the two files on the left (or right) of the company will face 
to the right (or left) and double the others will continue to march straight-forward.  If the files are 
broken from the left the men will immediately file to the left, so that the odd numbers will cover 
the first and third, and the even numbers, the second and fourth files, from that flank of 
company.  If the files are broken from the right, the men will immediately file to the right so that 
the even numbers will cover the first and third, and the odd numbers, the second and fourth files 
from that flank of the company.  The men will be careful not to lose their distances and to keep 
aligned. 
296. If the instructor should still wish to break two files from the same side, he will give 
the order to the captain, who will proceed as above directed. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
99
 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
100
297. At the command march, given by the captain, the files already broken, advancing a 
little the outer shoulder, will gain the space of two files to the right, if the files are broken from 
the left, and to the left, if the files are broken from the right, shortening, at the same time, the 
step, in order to make room between themselves and the rear-rank of the company for the files 
last ordered to the rear; the latter will break by the same commands, and in the same manner as 
the first.  The men who double, should increase his length of the step, in order to prevent 
distances from being lost. 
298. The instructor may thus diminish the front of a company by breaking off successive 
groups of two files, but the new files must always be broken from the same side. 
299. The instructor, wishing to cause files broken off to return into line, will give the 
order to his captain, who will immediately command: 
 
1. Two files into line.  2. MARCH. 
 
300. At the command march, the first two files of those marching by the flank will return 
briskly into line, and the others will gain the space of two files by advancing the inner shoulder 
toward the flank to which they belong. 
301. The captain will turn to his company, to watch the observance of the principles 
which have just been prescribed. 
302. The instructor having caused groups of two files to break one after another, and to 
return again into line, will afterward cause two or three groups to break together, and for this 
purpose, will command: Four or six files from left (or right) to rear; MARCH.  The files 
designated will face to the right (or left) and double and will then immediately file into their 
proper places as indicated No. 295, taking care that the distances are preserved. 
303. The instructor will next order the captain to cause two or three groups to be brought 
into line at once, who, turning to the company, will command: 
 
Four or six file into line—MARCH. 
 
304. At the command march, the files designated will advance the inner shoulder, move 
up and form on the flank of the company by the shortest lines. 
305. As often as files shall break off to the rear, the guide on that flank will gradually 
close on the nearest front-rank man remaining in line and he will also open out to make room for 
file ordered into line. 
306. The files which march in the rear are disposed in the following order: the left files as 
if the company was marching by the right flank, and the right files as if the company was 
marching by the left flank.  Consequently, whenever there is on the right or left of a subdivision, 
a file which does not belong to a group, it will be broken singly. 
307. It is necessary to the preservation of distances in column, that the men should be 
habituated in the schools of detail to execute the movements of this article with precision.  
308. If the new files broken to the rear do not step well off when filing to the left or right; 
if, when files are ordered into line, they do not move up with promptitude and precision, in either 
case, the following files will be arrested in their march, and thereby cause the column to be 
lengthened out.  
309. The instructor will place himself on the flank from which the files are broken, to 
assure himself of the exact observance of the principles. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
101
310. Files will only be broken off from the side of direction, in order that the whole 
company may easily pass from the front to the flank march. 
 
ARTICLE III. 
 
To march the column in route and to execute the movements incident 
thereto. 
 
311. The swiftness of the route step will be one hundred and ten steps in a minute; this 
swiftness will be habitually maintained in columns in route, when the roads and ground may 
permit. 
312. The company being at a halt, and supposed to constitute a subdivision of a column, 
when the instructor shall wish to cause it to march in the route step, he will command: 
 
1. Column, forward.  2. Guide, left (or right).  3. Route step.  4. MARCH. 
 
313. At the command march, repeated by the captain, the two ranks will step off 
together; the rear-rank will take in marching, by shortening a few steps, a distance of one pace 
(twenty-eight inches) from the rank preceding, which distance will be computed from the breasts 
of the men in the rear-rank, to the knapsacks of the men in the front-rank.  The men, without 
further command, will immediately carry their arms at will, as indicated in the S. S., No. 228 or 
they may sling them on their backs muzzle up.  They will no longer be required to march in the 
cadence pace, or with the same foot, or to remain silent.  The files will march at ease; but care 
will be taken to prevent the ranks from intermixing, the front-rank from getting in advance of the 
guide, and the rear-rank from opening to too great a distance. 
314. The company marching in the route step, the instructor will cause it to change 
direction, which will be executed without formal commands, on a simple caution from the 
captain; the rear-rank will come up to change direction in the same manner as the front-rank.  
Each rank will conform itself, although in the route step, to the principles which have been 
prescribed for the change in closed ranks, with this difference only; that the pivot man, instead of 
taking steps of nine, will take steps of fourteen inches, in order to clear the wheeling point. 
315. The company marching in the route step, to cause it to pass to the cadence step, the 
instructor will first order pieces to be brought to the right shoulder, and then command: 
 
1. Quick time.  2. MARCH. 
 
316. At the command march, the men will resume the cadenced step, and will close so as 
to leave a distance of sixteen inches between each rank. 
317. The company marching in the cadenced pace, the instructor, to cause it to take the 
route step, will command: 
 
1. Route step.  2. MARCH. 
 
318. At the command march, the front-rank will continue the step of twenty-eight inches, 
the rear-rank will take, by gradually shortening the step, the distance of twenty-eight, inches 
from the front-rank; the men will carry their arms at will. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
102
319. If the company be marching in the route step, and the instructor should suppose the 
necessity of marching by the flank in the same direction he will command: 
 
1. Company by the right (or left) flank.  2. By file left (or right).  3. MARCH. 
 
320. At the command march, the company will face to the right (or left) in marching, the 
captain will place himself by the side of the guide who conducts the leading flank: this guide will 
wheel immediately to the left or right; all the files will come in succession to wheel on the same 
spot as the guide; if there be files broken off to the rear, they will, by wheeling, regain their 
respective places, and follow the movement of the company. 
321. The instructor having caused the company to be again formed into line, will exercise 
it in increasing and diminishing front, by platoon which will be executed by the same commands, 
and the same means, as if the company were marching in the cadenced step.  When the company 
breaks into platoons, the chief of each will move to the flank of his platoon, and will take the 
place of the guide, who will step back into the rear-rank. 
322. The company being in column, by platoon, and supposed to march in the route step, 
the instructor can cause the front to be diminished and increased, by section, if the platoons have 
a front of twelve files or more. 
323. The movements of diminishing and increasing front, by section, will be executed 
according to the principles indicated for the same movements by platoon.  The right sections of 
platoons will be commanded by the captain and first lieutenant, respectively; the left sections, by 
the two next subalterns in rank, or, in their absence, by sergeants. 
324. The instructor wishing to diminish by section, will give the order to the captain, who 
will command: 
 
1. Break into sections.  2. MARCH. 
 
325. As soon as the platoons shall be broken each chief of section will place himself on 
its directing flank in the front-rank, the guides, who will be thus displaced, will fall back into the 
rear-rank: the file closers will close up to within one pace of this rank. 
326. Platoons will be broken into sections only in the column in route, the movement will 
never be executed in the manœuvres, whatever may be the front of the company. 
327. When the instructor shall wish to re-form platoons, he will give the order to the 
captain, who will command: 
 
1. Form platoons.  2. MARCH. 
 
328. At the first command, each chief of section will place himself before its centre, and 
the aides will pass into the front-rank.  At the command march, the movement will be executed 
its has been prescribed for forming company.  The moment the platoons are formed, the chiefs of 
the left sections will return to their places as file closers. 
329. The instructor will also cause to be executed the diminishing and increasing front by 
files, as prescribed in the preceding article, and in the same manner, as if marching in the 
cadenced step.  When the company is broken into sections, the subdivisions must not be reduced 
to a front of less than six files, not counting the chief of the section. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
103
330. The company being broken by platoon, or by section, the instructor will cause it, 
marching in the route step, to march by the flank in the same direction, by the commands and the 
means indicated, Nos. 319 and 320.  The moment the subdivisions shall face to the right (or left), 
the first file of each will wheel to the left (or right), in marching to prolong the direction, and to 
unite with the rear file of the subdivision immediately preceding.  The file closers will take their 
habitual places in the march by the flank, before the union of the subdivisions. 
331. If the company be marching by the right flank, and the instructor should wish to 
undouble the files, which might sometimes be found necessary, he will inform the captain, who, 
after causing the cadenced step to be resumed, and arms to be shouldered or supported, will 
command: 
 
1. In two ranks, undouble files.  2. MARCH. 
 
332. At the second command the odd numbers will continue to march straight-forward, 
the even numbers will shorten the step, and obliquing to the left, will place themselves promptly 
behind the odd numbers: the rear-rank will gain a step to the left so as to retake the touch of 
elbows on the side of the front-rank.  
333. If the company be marching by the left flank, it will be the even numbers who will 
continue to march forward, and the odd numbers who will undouble. 
334. If it be found necessary, from the narrowness of the way or other cause, to reduce 
the front still further, the captain, on an intimation from the instructor, will command: 
 
1. In one rank, undouble files.  2. MARCH. 
 
335. At the command march, the right or left guide, with the leading front-rank man, will 
continue the march, the rear-rank man stepping in rear of his file-leader as soon as he is able to 
pass; the other files marking time.  The second file, and successively all the other files, will step 
off as soon as sufficient distance is gained, the front-rank man of each file following immediately 
the rear-rank man of the file next in front of him, and each rear-rank man taking his place as 
above indicated. 
336. If the instructor wishes to double files, he will so indicate to the captain, who will 
command: 
 
1. In two ranks, double files.  2. MARCH. 
 
337. At the command march, the rear-rank men will take a side step to the right (or left), 
and each rank will close up on its leading file. 
338. If the instructor should wish again to double the files, he will give the order to the 
captain, who will command: 
 
1. In four ranks, double files.  2. MARCH. 
 
339. At the command march, the files will double in the manner as explained, when the 
company faces by the right or the left flank.  The instructor will afterward cause the route step to 
be resumed. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
104
340. The various movements prescribed in this lesson may be executed in double quick 
time.  The men will be brought, by degrees, to pass over at this gait about eleven hundred yards 
in seven minutes. 
341. When the company marching in the route step shall halt, the rear-rank will close up 
at the command halt, and the whole will shoulder arms. 
342. Marching in the route step, the men will be permitted to carry their pieces in the 
manner they shall find most convenient, paying attention only to holding the muzzles up, so as to 
avoid accidents. 
 
ARTICLE IV. 
 
Countermarch. 
 
343. The company being at a halt, and supposed to constitute part of a column, right in 
front, when the instructor shall wish to cause it to countermarch, he will command: 
 
1. Countermarch.  2. Company, right—FACE.  3. By file, left.  4. MARCH. 
 
344. At the second command, the company will face to the right, the two guides to the 
right about; the captain will go to the right of his company and cause two files to break to the 
rear and then place himself by the side of the front-rank man, to conduct him. 
345. At the command march, both guides will stand fast; the company will step off 
smartly; the first file, conducted by the captain, will wheel around the right guide, and direct its 
march along the front-rank so as to arrive behind, and two paces from the left guide; each file 
will come in succession to wheel on the same ground around the right guide; the leading file 
having arrived at a point opposite to the left guide, the captain will command: 
 
1. Company.  2. HALT.  3. FRONT.  4. Right—DRESS. 
 
346. The first command will be given at four paces from the point where the leading file 
is to rest. 
347. At the second command, the company will halt. 
348. At the third, it will face to the front. 
349. At the fourth, the company will dress by the right; the captain will step two paces 
outside of the left guide, now on the right, and direct the alignment, so that the front-rank may be 
enclosed between the two guides: the company being aligned, he will command FRONT, and 
place himself before the centre of the company as if in column; the guides, passing along the 
front-rank, will shift to their proper places, on the right and left of that rank. 
350. In a column, by platoon, the countermarch will be executed by the same commands, 
and according to the same principles; the guide of each platoon will face about, and its chief will 
place himself by the side of the file on the right, to conduct it. 
351. In a column, left in front, the countermarch will be executed by inverse commands 
and means, but according to the same principles.  Thus, the movement will be made by the right 
flank of subdivisions, if the right be in front, and by the left flank, if the left be in front; in both 
cases the subdivisions will wheel by file to the side of the front-rank. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
105
 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
106
ARTICLE V. 
 
Being in column by platoon, to form on the right (or left) into line of battle. 
 
352. The column by platoon, right in front, being in march, the instructor, wishing to 
form it on the right into line of battle, will command: 
 
1. On the right into line.  2. Guide right. 
 
353. At the second command, the guide of each platoon will shift quickly to its right 
flank and the men will touch elbows to the right; the column will continue to march straight-
forward. 
354. The instructor having given the second command, will move briskly to the point at 
which the right of the company ought to rest in line, and place himself facing the point of 
direction to the left which he will choose. 
355. The line of battle ought to be so chosen that the guide of each platoon, after having 
turned to the right, may have, at least, ten paces to take before arriving upon that line. 
356. The head of the column being nearly opposite to the instructor, the chief of the first 
platoon will command; 1. Right turn; and when exactly opposite to that point, he will add: 
 
2. MARCH. 
 
357. At the command march, the first platoon will turn to the right, in conformity with 
the principles prescribed in the S. S., No. 415.  Its guide will so direct his march as to bring the 
front-rank man, next on his left, opposite to the instructor; the chief of the platoon will march 
before its centre; and when its guide shall be near the line of battle he will command: 
 
1. Platoon.  2. HALT. 
 
358. At the command halt, which will be given at the instant the right of the platoon shall 
arrive at the distance of three paces from the line of battle, the platoon will halt; the files, not yet 
in line, will come up promptly.  The guide will place himself on the line of battle, opposite to one 
of the three left files of his platoon; he will face to the instructor, who will align him on the point 
of direction to the left.  The chief of platoon having, at the same time, gone to the point where 
the right of the company is to rest, will, as soon as he sees all the files of the platoon in line, 
command: 
 
Right—DRESS. 
 
359. At this, the first platoon will align itself; the front-rank man, who finds himself 
opposite to the guide, will rest his breast lightly against the right arm of this guide, and the chief 
of the platoon, from the right, will direct the alignment on this man. 
360. The second platoon will continue to march straight-forward, until its guide shall 
arrive opposite to the left file of the first; it will then turn to the right at the command of its chief, 
and march toward the line of battle, its guide directing himself on the left file of the first platoon. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
107
361. The guide having arrived at the distance of three paces from the line of battle, this 
platoon will be halted, as prescribed for the first; at the instant it halts, its guide will spring on the 
line of battle, opposite to one of the three left files of his platoon, and will be assured in his 
position by the instructor. 
362. The chief of the second platoon, seeing all its files in line, and its guide established 
on the direction, will command: 
 
Right—DRESS. 
 
363. Having given this command, he will return to his place as a file closer, passing 
around the left; the second platoon will dress up on the alignment of the first, and, when 
established, the captain will command: 
 
FRONT. 
 
364. The movement ended, the instructor will command: 
 
Guides—POSTS. 
 
365. At this command, the two guides will return to their places in line of battle. 
366. A column, by platoon, left in front, will form on the left into line of battle, according 
to the same principles, and, by inverse means, applying to the second platoon what is prescribed 
for the first, and reciprocally.  The chief of the second platoon having aligned it, from the point 
d’appui, (the left,) will retire to his place as a file closer.  The captain having halted the first 
platoon three paces behind the line of battle, will go to the same point to align this platoon, and 
then command: FRONT.  At the command, guides—posts, given by the instructor, the captain 
will shift to his proper flank, and the guides take their places in the line of battle. 
367. When the companies of a regiment are to be exercised, at the same time, in the 
school of the company, the colonel will indicate the lesson or lessons they are severally to 
execute.  The whole will commence by a signal, and terminate in like manner. 
 
FORMATION OF A COMPANY FROM TWO RANKS INTO SINGLE RANK, 
AND RECIPROCALLY. 
 
368. The company being formed into two ranks in the manner indicated No. 15, Title I, 
and supposed to make part of a column, right or left in front, when the instructor shall wish to 
form it into single rank, he will command: 
 
1. In one rank, form company.  2. MARCH. 
 
369. At the first command the right guide will face to the right. 
370. At the command march, the right guide will step off and march in the prolongation 
of the front-rank. 
371. The first file will step off at the same time with the guide; the front-rank man will 
turn to the right at the first step, follow the guide, and be himself followed by the rear-rank man 
of his file, who will come to turn on the same spot where he had turned.  The second file, and 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
108
successively all the other files, will step off as has been prescribed for the first, the front-rank 
man of each file following immediately the rear-rank man of the file next on his right.  The 
captain will superintend the movement, and when the last man shall have stepped off, he will halt 
the company, and face it to the front. 
372. The file closers will take their places in line of battle, two paces in rear of the rank. 
373. The company being in single rank, when the instructor shall wish to form it into two 
ranks, he will command: 
 
1. In two ranks, form company.  2. Company, right—FACE.  3. MARCH. 
 
374. At the second command the company will face to the right; the right guide and the 
man on the right will remain faced to the front. 
375. At the command march, the men who have faced to the right, will step off, and form 
files in the following manner: the second man in the rank will place himself behind the first to 
form the first file; the third will place himself by the side of the first in the front-rank: the fourth 
behind the third in the rear-rank.  All the others will, in like manner, place themselves, 
alternately, in the front and rear-rank, and will thus form files of two men, on the left of those 
already formed. 
376. The formations above described will be habitually executed by the right of 
companies; but when the instructor shall wish to have them executed by the left, he will face the 
company about, and post the guides in the rear-rank. 
377. The formation will then be executed by the same commands, and according to the 
same principles as by the front-rank; the movement commencing with the left file, now become 
the right, and in each file by the rear-rank man, now become the front; the left guide will 
conform to what has been prescribed for the right. 
378. The formation ended, the instructor will face the company to its proper front. 
379. When a battalion in line has to execute either of the formations above described, the 
colonel will cause it to break to the rear by the right or left of companies, and will then give the 
commands just prescribed for the instructor.  Each company will execute the movement as if 
acting singly. 
 
FORMATION OF A COMPANY FROM TWO RANKS INTO FOUR, AND 
RECIPROCALLY, AT A HALT, AND IN MARCH. 
 
380. The company being formed in two ranks, at a halt, and supposed to form part of a 
column right in front, when the instructor shall wish to form it into four ranks, he will command: 
 
1. In four ranks, form company.  2. Company left—FACE.  3. MARCH (or double 
quick—MARCH). 
 
381. At the second command, the left guide will remain faced to the front, the company 
will face to the left; the rear-rank will gain the distance of one pace from the front-rank by a side 
step to the left and rear, and the men will form into four ranks as prescribed in Nos. 138 and 142. 
382. At the command march, the first file of four men will reface to the front without 
undoubling.  All the other files of four will step off, and closing successively to about five inches 
of the preceding file, will halt, and immediately face to the front, the men remaining doubled. 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
109
383. The file closers will take their new places in line of battle, at two paces in rear of the 
fourth rank. 
384. The captain will superintend the movement. 
385. The company being in four ranks, when the instructor shall wish to form it into two 
ranks, he will command: 
 
1. In two ranks, form company.  2. Company right—FACE.  3. MARCH (or double 
quick—MARCH). 
 
386. At the second command the left guide will stand fast, the company will face to the 
right. 
387. At the command march, the right guide will step off and march in the prolongation 
of the front-rank.  The leading file of four men will step off at the same time, the other files 
standing fast; the second file will step off when there shall be between it and the first, space 
sufficient to form into two ranks.  The following files will execute successively what has been 
prescribed for the second.  As soon as the last file shall have its distance, the instructor will 
command: 
 
1. Company.  2. HALT.  3. FRONT. 
 
388. At the command front, the company will face to the front and the files will 
undouble. 
389. The company being formed in two ranks, and marching to the front, when the 
instructor shall wish to form it into four ranks, he will command: 
 
1. In four ranks, form company.  2. By the left, double files.  3. MARCH (or double 
quick—MARCH). 
 
390. At the command march, the left guide and the left file of the company will continue 
to march straight to the front: the company will make a half face to the left, the odd numbers 
placing themselves behind the even numbers.  The even numbers of the rear-rank will shorten 
their steps a little, to permit the odd numbers of the front-rank to get between them and the even 
numbers of that rank.  The files thus formed of fours, except the left file, will continue to march 
obliquely, lengthening their steps slightly, so as to keep constantly abreast of the guide; each file 
will close successively on the file next on its left, and when at the proper distance from that file 
will face to the front by a half face to the right, and take the touch of elbows to the left. 
391. The company being in march to the front in four ranks, when the instructor shall 
wish to form it into two ranks, he will command: 
 
1. In two ranks, form company.  2. By the right, undouble files.  3. MARCH (or 
double quick—MARCH). 
 
392. At the command march, the left guide and the left file of the company will continue 
to march straight to the front; the company will make a half face to the right, and march 
obliquely, lengthening the step a little, in order to keep, as near as possible, abreast of the guide.  
As soon as the second file from the left shall have gained to the right the interval necessary for 
 
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
110
the left file to form into two ranks, the second file will face to the front by a half face to the left, 
and march straight-forward; the left file will immediately form into two ranks, and take the touch 
of elbows to the left.  Each file will execute successively, what has just been proscribed for the 
file next to the left) and each file will form into two ranks when the file next on its right has 
obliqued the required distance, and faced to the front. 
393. If the company be supposed to make part of a column, left in front, these different 
movements will be executed according to the same principles, and by inverse means, substituting 
the indication left for right. 
 
END OF THE SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY. 
 
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS. 
 
111
TITLE IV. 
_______________ 
 
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  
 
General Principles and Division of the Instruction. 
 
1. THE movements of skirmishers should be subjected to such rules as will give to the 
commander the means of moving them in any direction with the greatest promptitude. 
2. It is not expected that these movements should be executed with the same precision as 
in closed ranks, nor is it desirable, as such exactness would materially interfere with their prompt 
execution. 
3. When skirmishers are thrown out to clear the way for, and to protect the advance of, 
the main corps, their movements should be so regulated by this corps, as to keep it constantly 
covered. 
4. Every body of skirmishers should have a reserve, the strength and composition of 
which will vary according to circumstances. 
5. If the body thrown out be within sustaining distance of the main corps, a very small 
reserve will be sufficient for each company, whose duty it shall be to fill vacant places, furnish 
the line with cartridges, relieve the fatigued, and serve as a rallying point for the skirmishers. 
6. If the main corps be at a considerable distance, besides the company reserves, another 
reserve will be required, composed of entire companies, which will be employed to sustain and 
reinforce such parts of the line as may be warmly attacked; this reserve should be strong enough 
to relieve at least half the companies deployed as skirmishers. 
7. The reserves should be placed behind the centre of the line of skirmishers, the 
company reserves at one hundred and fifty, and the principal reserve at four hundred paces.  This 
rule, however, is not invariable.  The reserves, while holding themselves within sustaining 
distance of the line, should be, as much as possible, in position to afford each other mutual 
protection, and must carefully profit by any accidents of the ground to conceal themselves from 
the view of the enemy, and to shelter themselves from his fire. 
8. The movements of skirmishers will be executed in quick, or double quick time.  The 
run will be resorted to only in cases of urgent necessity. 
9. Skirmishers will be permitted to carry their pieces in the manner most convenient to 
them. 
10. The movements will be habitually indicated by the sounds of the bugle. 
11. The officers, and, if necessary, the non-commissioned officers, will repeat, and cause 
the commands to be executed, as soon as they are given; but to avoid mistakes, when the signals 
are employed, they will wait until the last bugle note is sounded before commencing the 
movement. 
12. When skirmishers are ordered to move rapidly, the officers and non-commissioned 
officers will see that the men economize their strength, keep cool, and profit by all the 
advantages which the ground may offer for cover.  It is only by this continual watchfulness on 
the part of all grades, that a line of skirmishers can attain success. 
13. This instruction will be divided into five articles, and subdivided as follows: 
 
 
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS. 
 
112
ARTICLE I. 
 
1. To deploy forward. 
2. To deploy by the flank. 
3. To extend intervals. 
4. To close intervals. 
5. To relieve skirmishers. 
 
ARTICLE II. 
 
1. To advance in line. 
2. To retreat in line. 
3. To change direction. 
4. To march by the flank. 
 
ARTICLE III. 
 
1. To fire at a halt. 
2. To fire marching. 
 
ARTICLE IV. 
 
1. The rally. 
2. To form column to march in any direction. 
3. The assembly. 
 
ARTICLE V. 
 
1. To deploy a battalion as skirmishers. 
2. To rally the battalion deployed as skirmishers. 
 
14. In the first four articles, it is supposed that the movements are executed by a company 
deployed as skirmishers, on a front equal to that of the battalion in order of battle.  In the fifth 
article, it is supposed that each company of the battalion, being deployed as skirmishers, 
occupies a front of one hundred paces.  From these two examples, rules may be deduced for all 
cases, whatever may be the numerical strength of the skirmishers, and the extent of ground they 
ought to occupy. 
 
ARTICLE I. 
 
DEPLOYMENTS. 
 
15. A company may be deployed as skirmishers in two ways; forward, and by the flank. 
 
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS. 
 
113
 
 
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS. 
 
114
16. The deployment forward will be adopted when the company is behind the line on 
which it is to be established as skirmishers: it will be deployed by the flank, when it finds itself 
already on that line. 
17. Whenever a company is to be deployed as skirmishers, it will be divided into two 
platoons, and each platoon will be subdivided into two sections; the comrades in battle, forming 
groups of four men, will be careful to know and to sustain each other.  The captain will assure 
himself that the files in the centre of each platoon and section are designated. 
18. A company may be deployed as skirmishers on its right, left, or centre file, or on any 
other named file whatsoever.  In this manner, skirmishers may be thrown forward with the 
greatest possible rapidity on any ground they may be required to occupy. 
19. A chain of skirmishers ought generally to preserve their alignment, but no advantages 
which the ground may present should be sacrificed to attain this regularity. 
20. The interval between skirmishers depends on the extent of ground to be covered; but 
in general, it is not proper that the groups of four men should be removed more than forty paces 
from each other.  The habitual distance between men of the same group in open grounds will be 
five paces; in no case will they lose sight of each other. 
21. The front to be occupied to cover a battalion comprehends its front and the half of 
each interval which separates it from the battalion on its right and left.  If a line, whose wings are 
not supported, should be covered by skirmishers, it will be necessary either to protect the flanks 
with skirmishers, or to extend them in front of the line so far beyond the wings as effectually to 
oppose any attempt which might be made by the enemy’s skirmishers to disturb the flanks.  
 
To deploy forward. 
 
22. A company being at a halt or in march, when the captain shall wish to deploy it 
forward on the left file of the first platoon, holding the second platoon in reserve, he will 
command: 
 
1. First platoon—as skirmishers.  2. On the left file—take intervals.  3. MARCH (or 
double quick—MARCH). 
 
23. At the first command, the second and third lieutenants will place themselves rapidly 
two paces behind the centres of the right and left sections of the first platoon; the fifth sergeant 
will move one pace in front of the centre of the first platoon, and will place himself between the 
two sections in the front-rank as soon as the movement begins; the fourth sergeant will place 
himself on the left of the front-rank of the same platoon, as soon as he can pass.  The captain will 
indicate to this sergeant the point on which he wishes him to direct his march.  The first 
lieutenant, placing himself before the centre of the second platoon, will command: 
 
Second platoon backward—MARCH. 
 
24. At this command, the second platoon will step three paces to the rear, so as to 
unmask the flank of the first platoon.  It will then be halted by its chief, and the second sergeant 
will place himself on the left, and the third sergeant on the right flank of this platoon.  If the 
company is on the march, the second platoon will be halted at the first command. 
 
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS. 
 
115
25. At the command march, the left group of four men, conducted by the fourth sergeant, 
will direct itself on the point indicated; all the other groups of fours throwing forward briskly the 
left shoulder, will move diagonally to the front in double quick time, so as to gain to the right the 
space of twenty paces, which shall be the distance between each group and that immediately on 
its left.  When the second group from the left shall arrive on a line with, and twenty paces from 
the first, it will march straight to the front, conforming to the gait and direction of the first, 
keeping constantly on the same alignment and at twenty paces from it.  The third group, and all 
the others, will conform to what has just been prescribed for the second; they will arrive 
successively on the line.  The right guide will arrive with the last group. 
26. The left guide having reached the point where the left of the line should rest, the 
captain will command the skirmishers to halt; the men composing each group of fours will then 
immediately deploy at five paces from each other, and to the right and left of the front-rank man 
of the even file in each group, the rear-rank men placing themselves on the left of their file 
leaders.  If tiny groups be not in line at the command halt, they will move up rapidly, conforming 
to what has just been prescribed. 
27. If, during the deployment, the line should be fired upon by the enemy, the captain 
may cause the groups of fours to deploy, as they gain their proper distances. 
28. The line being formed, the non-commissioned officers on the right, left, and centre, 
of the platoon, will place themselves ten paces in rear of the line, and opposite the positions they 
respectively occupied.  The chiefs of sections will promptly rectify any irregularities, and then 
place themselves twenty-five or thirty paces in rear of the centre of their sections, each having 
with him four men taken from the reserve, and also a bugler, who will repeat, if necessary, the 
signals sounded by the captain. 
29. Skirmishers should be particularly instructed to take advantage of any cover which 
the ground may offer, and should lie flat on the ground whenever such a movement is necessary 
to protect them from the fire of the enemy.  Regularity in the alignment should yield to his 
important advantage. 
30. When the movement begins, the first lieutenant will face the second platoon about, 
and march it promptly, and by the shortest line, to about one hundred and fifty paces in rear of 
the centre of the line.  He will hold it always at this distance, unless ordered to the contrary. 
31. The reserve will conform itself to all the movements of the line.  This rule is general. 
32. Light troops will carry their bayonets habitually in the scabbard, and this rule applies 
equally to the skirmishers and the reserve; whenever bayonets are required to be fixed, a 
particular signal will be given.  The captain will give a general superintendence to the whole 
deployment, and then promptly place himself about eight paces in rear of the centre of the line. 
He will have with him a bugler and four men taken from the reserve. 
33. The deployment may be made on the right or the centre of the platoon, by the same 
commands, substituting the indication right or center, for that of left file. 
34. The deployment on the right or the centre will be made according to the principles 
prescribed above; in this latter case, the centre of the platoon will be marked by the right group 
of fours in the second section; the fifth sergeant will place himself on the right of this group, and 
serve as the guide of the platoon during the deployment. 
35. In whatever manner the deployment be made on the right, left, centre (or any file), 
the men in each group of fours will habitually deploy at five paces from each other, and upon the 
front-rank man of the even-numbered file.  The deployments will habitually be made at twenty 
paces interval; but if a greater interval be required, it will be indicated in the command. 
 
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS. 
 
116
36. If a company be thrown out as skirmishers so near the main body as to render a 
reserve unnecessary, the entire company will be extended in the same manner, and according to 
the same principles, as for the deployment of a platoon.   In this case, the third lieutenant will 
command the fourth section, and a non-commissioned officer designated for that purpose, the 
second section; the fifth sergeant will act as centre guide; the file closers will place themselves 
ten paces in rear of the line, and opposite their places in line of battle.  The first and second 
lieutenant will each have a bugler near him. 
 
To deploy by the flank. 
 
37. The company being at a halt, when the captain shall wish to deploy it by the flank, 
holding the first platoon in reserve, he will command: 
 
1. Second platoon—as skirmishers.  2. By the right flank—take intervals. 
3. MARCH (or double quick—MARCH). 
 
38. At the first command, the first and third lieutenants will place themselves, 
respectively, two paces behind the centres of the first and second sections of the second platoon; 
the fifth sergeant will place himself one pace in front of the centre of the second platoon; the 
third sergeant, as soon as be can pass, will place himself on the right of the front-rank of the 
same platoon.  The captain will indicate to him the point on which he wishes him to direct his 
march.  The chief of the first platoon will execute what has been prescribed for the chief of the 
second platoon, Nos. 23 and 24.  The fourth sergeant will place himself on the left flank of the 
reserve, the first sergeant will remain on the right flank. 
39. At the second command, the first and third lieutenants will place themselves two 
paces behind the left group of their respective sections. 
40. At the command march, the second platoon will face to the right, and commence the 
movement; the left group of fours will stand fast, but will deploy as soon as there is room on its 
right, conforming to what has been prescribed No. 26; the third sergeant will place himself on the 
left of the right group, to conduct it; the second group will halt at twenty paces from the one on 
its left, the third group at twenty pace from the second, and so on to the right.  As the groups halt, 
they will face to the enemy, and deploy, as has been explained for the left group. 
41. The chiefs of sections will pay particular attention to the successive deployments of 
the groups, keeping near the group about to halt, so as to rectify any errors which may be 
committed.  When the deployment is completed, they will place themselves thirty paces in rear 
of the centre of their sections, as has been heretofore prescribed.  The non-commissioned officers 
will also place themselves as previously indicated. 
42. As soon as the movement commences, the chief of the first platoon, causing it to face 
about, will move it as indicated No. 30. 
43. The deployment may be made by the left flank according to the same principles, 
substituting left flank for right flank. 
44. If the captain should wish to deploy the company upon the centre of one of the 
platoons he will command: 
 
 
