INFANTRY TACTICS,

                                           FOR THE

      INSTRUCTION, EXERCISE, AND MANOEUVRES

                                               OF

 THE SOLDIER, A COMPANY, LINE OF SKIRMISHERS,
                     BATTALION, BRIGADE,

                                               OR

               CORPS D'ARMÉE.

                                    BY

   BRIG.-GEN. SILAS CASEY,

                                         U. S. ARMY.

                      ____________________
                                  Vol. I.

                   SCHOOLS OF THE SOLDIER AND COMPANY.
                 INSTRUCTIONS FOR SKIRMISHERS AND MUSIC.

                      ____________________

                                  NEW YORK:
                D. VAN NOSTRAND, 192 BROADWAY

                                       1862.
    Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1862,
                     By D. VAN NOSTRAND,

In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States,
              for the Southern District of New York.
                                                                                         WAR DEPARTMENT,
                                                                           WASHINGTON, August 11, 1862.

         The System of Infantry Tactics, prepared by Brigadier General SILAS CASEY, U.S.A.,
having been approved by the President, is adopted for the instruction of the Infantry of the
Armies of the United States, whether Regular, Volunteer, or Militia, with the following
modifications viz.:--

         First. ­ That portion which requires that two companies shall be permanently detached
from the battalion as skirmishers, will be suspended.

         Second. ­ In Title First, Article First, the following will be substituted for paragraph 6,
viz.:

         "A regiment is composed of ten companies, which will be habitually posted from right to
left in the following order: first, sixth, fourth, ninth, third, eighth, fifth, tenth, seventh, second,
according to the rank of Captains."

                                                                                        EDWIN M. STANTON,
                                                                                                Secretary of War.
PREFACE.  1

         The following volumes of Infantry Tactics are based upon the French ordonnances of
1831 and 1845, for the manoeuvres of heavy infantry and chasseurs à pied. Both of these
systems have been in use in our service for some years; the former having been translated by
Lieutenant-General Scott, and the latter by Lieutenant-Colonel Hardee. My attention, for many
years given to the study of the manoeuvres of infantry, was more particularly directed to the
subject while engaged, in 1854, as President of a Board assembled by the War Department, for
the review, correction and emendation of the translation of Lieutenant-Colonel Hardee. Since
the introduction into our service of this latter drill, in connection with the tactics of General
Scott, I have seen the necessity of a uniform system for the manoeuvres of all the infantry arm of
service.

         The revolution which has been wrought within a few years past in the weapons both of
artillery and infantry, has necessitated a departure from those provisional movements and
formations in order of battle, which characterized the school of Frederick the Great. Apart even
from the consideration of a change in weapons these movements are condemned by the ablest
tacticians of Europe, and have been violated in all the great actions since the French Revolution.
It has, consequently, been felt essential to fix the formation to that in two ranks to increase the
rapidity of the gait; to increase the intervals between the battalions and brigades; to make, in the
evolutions, the brigade the tactical unit; to hold the troops, when in manoeuvres in presence of the
enemy, in closer order and well in hand; and, as a general rule, to insist upon deployments upon
the heads of columns, as the safest and most rapid means of forming line of battle.

         Not many changes from the original have been deemed necessary in the schools
contained in the first volume. It is believed, however, that the careful reader will find among
those made, several which will be of assistance in the movements of a company or line of
skirmishers.

         The absolute necessity in action and on the battlefield, of skirmishers, and the heretofore
unfrequent use of this class of troops in connection with the manoeuvres of the battalion, has led
me to designate in each battalion two of its companies as light troops, whose sole duty will be to
cover it in all the movements. It is intended that these companies shall be composed of picked
men, possessing the highest physical qualifications, marksmen as well, and that they shall be
used as skirmishers. Should they, however, be present in company formation with the battalion
during its manoeuvres (which will probably be exceptional in its occurrence), methods have been
provided in the School of the Battalion, for their movements. In this School, several battalion
manoeuvres have been introduced not in the original, several thrown out, and others changed and
modified.

         In the third volume, the manoeuvres of a brigade, comprising in its organization the three
arms of service, are provided for, as well as the evolutions of a corps d'armée, composed of
several brigades. In these schools a number of changes and additions have been made in the
manoeuvres, formations, and organizations.

         It is not my intention to discuss the propriety of the alterations made from our present
systems of tactics. I leave to the test of practice and experience the exhibitions of their merits
and demerits. Most undoubtedly, there are still improvements to be made; but if the system here
set forth shall in any manner cause our armies to act with more efficiency on the field of battle,
and thus subserve the cause of our beloved country in this her hour of trial, my most heartfelt
wishes will have been attained.
PREFACE.                                                       2

                                   SILAS CASEY,
                  Col. 4th Regt. U.S. Infantry,
             and Brig.-Gen. Vol., U.S. Army.
WASHINGTON, D.C., January 1st, 1862.

                            ABBREVIATIONS.
                S. S. Will stand for School of the Soldier.
                S. C. Will stand for School of the Company.
                S. B. Will stand for School of the Battalion.
                E. B. Will stand for Evolutions of a Brigade.
Paragraphs marked 0 are suspended, and may not be taught.
FORMATION OF INFANTRY IN ORDER OF BATTLE.  3

            INFANTRY TACTICS.

                                               _______________

                                TITLE I.

                                               _______________

                                                  ARTICLE I.

                 FORMATION OF INFANTRY IN ORDER OF BATTLE.

         1. IN the formations of Infantry, a Brigade of the Line will constitute, the unit, and in
every line of battle composed of more than one of these brigades, they will be, posted from right
to left, in the order of their numbers.

         2. A similar disposition will be made of the regiments in a brigade.
         3. In all exercises, manoeuvres and evolutions, every regiment of ten companies will take
the denomi nation of battalion, and all the battalions in the same brigade, will be designated,
from right to left, first battalion, second battalion, &c., &c. By these designations they will be
known in the evolutions.
         4. The interval between every two contiguous battalions in the same brigade will be
twenty-two paces, and the interval between every two contiguous brigades will habitually be one
hundred and fifty paces.
         5. A less number of battalions than four will habitually be formed in one line of battle,
but when it is thought expedient to form the brigade in two lines, the third and fourth battalions
will be respectively posted in rear of the first and second battalions. The battalions of the first
line will either be deployed, or in column at half distance, or closed in mass. The battalions of
the second line will always be drawn up in column, either simple or double, at half distance or
closed in mass, and posted for tactical instruction, one hundred and fifty paces in rear of the first
line, counting from the front-rank of the first, to the front-rank of the second line. The battalions
of the second line will be posted so that a line passing through their colors and those of the
battalions of the first line respectively (whether deployed or in column) shall always be
perpendicular to the line of battle. In presence of the enemy the distance between the lines will
depend upon circumstances; in general the second line should not be much exposed to the
enemy's fire.
         6. In a regiment composed of ten companies, eight will habitually be posted from right to
left in the following order: first, fifth, fourth, eighth, third, seventh, sixth, second, according to
the rank of the captains. These will be called battalion companies.
         7. With a less number of battalion companies, the same principle will be observed, viz.:
the first captain will command the right company, the second captain the left company, the third
captain the right centre company, and so on.
         8. The companies thus posted will be designated from right to left, first company, second
company, &c. This designation will be observed in the manoeuvres.
         0-9. The other two companies, to be designated from time to time by the colonel, will be
called the companies of skirmishers. The first company will habitually be posted thirty paces in
rear of the file closers of the first, and the second thirty paces in rear of the file closers of the last
battalion company.
FORMATION OF INFANTRY IN ORDER OF BATTLE.  4

         0-10. Should the number of the regimental companies present, other than the companies
of skirmishers, be less than eight, but one will be designated as skirmishers, to be in rear of the
first or last battalion company, or divided into platoons, the first platoon in rear of the first, and
the second in rear of the last battalion company, as the colonel may direct.

         11. The first two battalion companies on the right, whatever their denomination, will
form the first division; the next two companies the second division, and so on to the left.

         12. Each company will be divided into two equal parts, which will be designated as the
first and second platoon, counting from the right; and each platoon, in like manner, will be
subdivided into two sections.

         13. In all exercises and manoeuvres, every regiment, or part of a regiment, composed of
two or more companies, will be designated as a battalion.

         14. The color, with a guard to be hereinafter designated, will be posted on the left of the
right centre battalion company. That company, and all on its right, will be denominated the right
wing of the battalion; the remaining companies the left wing.

         15. The formation of a regiment is in two ranks; and each company will be formed into
two ranks, in the following manner: the corporals will be posted in the front-rank, and on the
right and left of platoons, according to height; the tallest corporal and the tallest man will form
the first file, the next two tallest men will form the second file, and so on to the last file, which
will be composed of the shortest corporal and the shortest man.

         16. The odd and even files, numbered as one, two, in the company, from right to left, will
form groups of four men, who will be designated comrades in battle.

         17. The distance from one rank to another will be thirteen inches, measured from the
breasts of the rear-rank men to the backs or knapsacks of the front-rank men.

         18. For manoeuvres, the companies of a battalion will always be equalized, by
transferring men from the strongest to the weakest companies.

      POSTS OF COMPANY OFFICERS SERGEANTS AND CORPORALS.

         19. The company officers and sergeants are nine in number, and will be posted in the
following manner:

         20. The captain on the right of the company, touching with the left elbow.
         21. The first sergeant in the rear-rank, touching with the left elbow, and covering the
captain. In the manoeuvres he will be denominated covering sergeant, or right guide of the
company.
         22. The remaining officers and sergeants will be posted as file closers, and two paces
behind the rear-rank.
         23. The first lieutenant, opposite the centre of the fourth section.
         24. The second lieutenant, opposite the centre of the first platoon.
         25. The third lieutenant, opposite the centre of the second platoon.
         26. The second sergeant, opposite the second file from the left of the company. In the
manoeuvres he will be designated left guide of the company.
         27. The third sergeant, opposite the second file from the right of the second platoon.
         28. The fourth sergeant, opposite the second file from the left of the first platoon.
         29. The fifth sergeant, opposite the second file from the right of the first platoon.
         30. In the left, or eighth company of the battalion, the second sergeant will be posted in
the front-rank, and on the left of the battalion.
FORMATION OF INFANTRY IN ORDER OF BATTLE.  5

         31. The corporals will be posted in the front-rank as prescribed, No. 15.
         32. Absent officers and sergeants will be replaced ­ officers by sergeants, and sergeants
by corporals. The colonel may detach a first lieutenant from one company to command another,
of which both the captain and first lieutenant are absent; but this authority will give no right to a
lieutenant to demand to be so detached.

             POSTS OF FIELD OFFICERS AND REGIMENTAL STAFF.

         33. The field officers, colonel, lieutenant-colonel and majors, are supposed to be
mounted, and on active service shall be on horseback. The adjutant, when the battalion is
manoeuvring, will be on foot.

         34. The colonel will take post thirty-five paces in rear of the file closers, and opposite the
centre of the battalion.

         35. The lieutenant-colonel and the senior major will be opposite the centres of the right
and left wings respectively, and twelve paces in rear of the file closers. The junior major will
take post thirty paces in rear of the file closers, and five paces to the right of the centre of the
battalion; and he will, under the direction of the colonel, have the command of the companies of
skirmishers.

         36. The adjutant and sergeant major will be opposite the right and left of the battalion
respectively, and eight paces in rear of the file closers.

         37. The adjutant and sergeant major will aid the lieutenant-colonel and senior major,
respectively, in the manoeuvres.

         38. The colonel, if absent, will be replaced by the lieutenant-colonel, and the latter by
one of the majors. If all the field officers be absent, the senior captain will command the
battalion; but if either be present, be will not call the senior captain to act as field officer, except
in case of evident necessity.

         39. The quarter-master, surgeon and other staff officers, in one rank, on the left of the
colonel, and three paces in his rear.

         40. The quarter-master sergeant, the commissary sergeant, and the hospital steward on a
line with the front-rank of the field music, and two paces on the right.

                             POSTS OF FIELD MUSIC AND BAND.

         41. The buglers or musicians of the battalion companies will be drawn up in four ranks,
and posted twelve paces in rear of the file closers, the left opposite the centre of the left centre
company. The senior principal musician will be two paces in front of the field music, and the
other two paces in the rear. In the companies of skirmishers, the buglers will be in one rank, in a
line with the front-rank of the company, and four paces from its right flank.

         42. The regimental band, if there be one, will be drawn up in two or four ranks,
according to its numbers, and posted five paces in rear of the field music, having one of the
principal musicians at its head.
FORMATION OF INFANTRY IN ORDER OF BATTLE.  6

                                             COLOR-GUARD.

         43. In each battalion the color-guard will be composed of eight corporals, and posted on
the left of the right-centre company, of which company, for the time being, the guard will make a
part.

         44. The front-rank will be composed of a sergeant to be selected by the colonel, who will
be called, for the time, color-bearer, with the two ranking corporals, respectively, on his right
and left; the rear-rank will be composed of the three corporals next in rank; and the three
remaining corporals will be posted in their rear, and on the line of file closers. The left guide of
the color company, when these three last named corporals are in the rank of file closers, will be
immediately on their left.

         45. In battalions with less than five companies present, there will be no color-guard, and
no display of colors, except it may be at reviews.

         46. The corporals for the color-guard will be selected from those most distinguished for
regularity and precision, as well in their positions under arms as in their marching. The latter
advantage, and a just carriage of the person, are to be more particularly sought for in the
selection of the color-bearer.

                                           GENERAL GUIDES.

         47. There will be two general guides in each battalion, selected, for the time, by the
colonel, from among the sergeants (other than first sergeants) the most distinguished for carriage
under arms, and accuracy in marching.

         48. These sergeants will be respectively denominated, in the manoeuvres, right general
guide, and left general guide, and be posted in the line of file closers; the first in rear of the right,
and the second in rear of the left flank of the battalion.

                                               _______________

                                                 ARTICLE II.

                             INSTRUCTION OF THE BATTALION.

         49. Every commanding officer is responsible for the instruction of his command. He will
assemble the officers together for theoretical and practical instruction as often as he may judge
necessary, and when unable to attend to this duty in person, it will be discharged by the officer
next in rank.

         50. Captains will be held responsible for the theoretical and practical instruction of their
non-commissioned officers, and the adjutant for the instruction of the non-commissioned staff.
To this end, they will require these tactics to be studied and recited, lesson by lesson; and when
instruction is given on the ground, each non-commissioned officer, as he explains a movement,
should be required to put it into practical operation.

         51. The non-commissioned officers should also be practised in giving commands. Each
command, in a lesson, at the theoretical instruction, should first be given by the instructor, and
then repeated, in succession, by the non-commissioned officers, so that while they become
habituated to the commands, uniformity may be established in the manner of giving them.
INSTRUCTION OF THE BATTALION.  7

         52. In the school of the soldier, the company officers will be the instructors of the squads;
but if there be not a sufficient number of company officers present, intelligent sergeants maybe
substituted; and two or three squads, under sergeant instructors, be superintended, at the same
time) by an officer.

         53. In the school of the company, the lieutenant-colonel and the majors, under the
colonel, will be the principal instructors, substituting frequently the captain of the company, and
sometimes one of the lieutenants; the substitute, as far as practicable, being superintended by one
of the principals.

         54. In the school of the battalion, the brigadier general may constitute himself the
principal instructor, frequently substituting the colonel of the battalion, sometimes the lieutenant-
colonel, or one of the majors, and twice or thrice, in the same course of instruction, each of the
three senior captains. In this school, also, the substitute will always, if practicable, be
superintended by the brigadier general or the colonel, or (in case of a captain being the
instructor), by the lieutenant-colonel or one of the majors.

         55. Individual instruction being the basis of the instruction of companies, on which that
of the regiment depends, and the first principles having the greatest influence upon this
individual instruction, classes of recruits should be watched with the greatest care.

         56. Instructors will explain, in a few clear and precise words, the movement to be
executed; and not to overburden the memory of the men, they will always use the same terms to
explain the same principles.

         57. They should often join example to precept, should keep up the attention of the men
by an animated tone, and pass rapidly from one movement to another, as soon as that which they
command has been executed in a satisfactory manner.

         58. The bayonet should only be fixed when required to be used, either for attack or
defence; the exercises and manoeuvres will be executed without the bayonet.

         59. In the movements which require the bayonet to be fixed, the chief of the battalion
will cause the signal to fix bayonet, to be sounded; at this signal the men fix bayonets without
command, and immediately replace their pieces in the position they were in before the signal.

                                  INSTRUCTION OF OFFICERS.

         60. The instruction of officers can be perfected only by joining theory to practice. The
colonel will often practise them in marching and in estimating distances, and he will carefully
endeavor to cause them to take steps equal in length and swiftness. They will also be exercised
in the double quick step.

         61. The instruction of officers will include all the Titles in this system of drill, as well as
a perfect knowledge of the system of firing as proscribed by the War Department.

         62. Every officer will make himself perfectly acquainted with the bugle signals; and
should, by practice, be enabled, if necessary, to sound them. This knowledge, so necessary in
general instruction, becomes of vital importance on actual service in the field.

                                 INSTRUCTION OF SERGEANTS.

         63. As the discipline and efficiency of a company materially depend on the conduct and
character of its sergeants, they should be selected with care, and properly instructed in all the
duties appertaining to their rank.
INSTRUCTION OF THE BATTALION.  8

         64. Their theoretical instruction should include the School of the Soldier, the School of
the Company, and the Drill for Skirmishers; as also a knowledge of the principles of firing.
They should likewise be well instructed in their duties as battalion guides.

         65. The captain selects from the corporals in his company, those whom he judges fit to be
admitted to the theoretical instruction of the sergeants.

                                INSTRUCTION OF CORPORALS.

         66. Their theoretical instruction should include the School of the Soldier, with a
knowledge of firing.

         67. The captain selects from his company a few privates, who may be admitted to the
theoretical instruction of the corporals.

         68. As the instruction of sergeants and corporals, is intended principally to qualify them
for the instruction of the privates, they should be taught not only to execute, but to explain
intelligibly every thing they may be required to teach.

                                                COMMANDS.

         There are three kinds.
         69. The command of caution, which is attention.
         70. The preparatory command, which indicates the movement which is to be executed.
         71. The command of execution, such as march or halt, or in the manual of arms, the part
of command which causes an execution.
         72. The tone of command distinct, and of a loudness should be animated, proportioned to
the number of men under instruction.
         73. The command attention is pronounced at the top of the voice, dwelling on the last
syllable.
         74. The command of execution will be pronounced in a tone firm and brief.
         75. The commands of caution and the preparatory commands are herein distinguished by
italic, those of execution by CAPITALS.
         76. Those preparatory commands which, from their length, are difficult to be pronounced
at once, must be divided into two or three parts, with an ascending progression in the tone of
command, but always in such a manner that the tone of execution may be more energetic and
elevated; the divisions are indicated by a hyphen. The parts of commands which are placed in a
parenthesis, are not pronounced.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  9

                                TITLE II.

                                               _______________

                            SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.

               General Rules and Division of the School of the Soldier.

         77. THE object of this school being the individual and progressive instruction of the
recruits, the instructor never requires a movement to be executed until he has given an exact
explanation of it; and he executes, himself, the movement which he commands, so as to join
example to precept. He accustoms the recruit to take, by himself, the position which is explained
­ teaches him to rectify it only when required by his want of intelligence ­ and sees that all the
movements are performed without precipitation.

         78. Each movement should be understood before passing to another. After they have
been properly executed in the order laid down in each lesson the instructor no longer confines
himself to that order; on the contrary, he should change it, that he may judge of the intelligence
of the men.

         79. The instructor allows the men to rest at the end of each part of the lessons, and
oftener, if he thinks proper, especially at the commencement; for this purpose he commands
REST.

         80. At the command REST, the soldier is no longer required to preserve immobility, or
to remain in his place. If the instructor wishes merely to relieve the attention of the recruit, he
commands, in place--REST; the soldier is then not required to preserve his immobility, but he
always keeps one of his feet in its place.

         81. When the instructor wishes to commence the instruction, he commands ­
ATTENTION; at the command, the soldier takes his position, remains motionless, and fixes his
attention.

         82. The School of the Soldier will be divided into three parts: the first, comprehending
what ought to be taught to recruits without arms; the second, the manual of arms, the loadings
and firings; the third, the principles of alignment, the march by the front, the different steps, the
march by the flank, the principles of wheeling, and those of change of direction; also, long
marches in double quick time and the run.

         83. Each part will be divided into lessons, as follows:

                                                PART FIRST.

         LESSON 1. Position of the soldier without arms: Eyes right, left and front.
         LESSON 2. Facings.
         LESSON 3. Principles of the direct step in common and quick time.
         LESSON 4. Principles of the direct step in double quick time and the run.

                                              PART SECOND.

         LESSON 1. Principles of shouldered arms.
         LESSON 2. Manual of arms.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  10

         LESSON 3. To load in four times, and at will.
         LESSON 4. Firings, direct, oblique, by file, and by rank.
         LESSON 5. To fire and load, kneeling and lying.
         LESSON 6. Bayonet exercise.

                                                PART THIRD.

         LESSON 1. Union of eight or twelve men for instruction in the principles of alignment.
         LESSON 2. The direct march, the oblique march, and the different steps.
         LESSON 3. The march by the flank.
         LESSON 4. Principles of wheeling and change of direction.
         LESSON 5. Long marches and double quick time, and the run, with arms and knapsacks.

                                               _______________

                                                PART FIRST.

         84. This will be taught, if practicable, to one recruit at a time; but three or four may be
united, when the number is great, compared with that of the instructors. In this case, the recruits
will be placed in a single rank, at one pace from each other. In this part, the recruits will be
without arms.

                                                  LESSON I.

                                     POSITION OF A SOLDIER.

         85. Heels on the same line, as near each other as the conformation of the man will
permit:

         The feet turned out equally, and forming with each other something less than a right
angle;

         The knees straight without stiffness;
         The body erect on the hips, inclining a little forward;
         The shoulders square and falling equally;
         The arms hanging naturally;
         The elbows near the body;
         The palm of the hand turned a little to the front, the little finger behind the seam of the
pantaloons;
         The head erect and square to the front, without constraint;
         The chin near the stock, without covering it;
         The eyes fixed straight to the front, and striking the ground about the distance of fifteen
paces.

                     REMARKS ON THE POSITION OF A SOLDIER.

                                           Heels on the same line;
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  11

         86. Because, if one were in rear of the other, the shoulder on that side would be thrown
back, or the position of the soldier would be constrained.

                                         Heels more or less closed;

         Because men who are knock-kneed, or who have legs with large calves, cannot, without
constraint, make their heels touch while standing.

               The feet equally turned out, and not forming too large an angle;

         Because, if one foot were turned out more than the other, a shoulder would be deranged,
and if both feet be too much turned out, it would not be practicable to incline the upper part of
the body, forward without rendering the whole position unsteady.

                                    Knees extended without stiffness;

         Because, if stiffened, constraint and fatigue would be unavoidable.

                                        The body erect on the hips;

         Because it gives equilibrium to the position. The instructor will observe that many
recruits have the bad habit of dropping a shoulder or drawing in a side, or of advancing a hip,
particularly the right, when under arms. These are defects he will labor to correct.

                           The upper part of the body inclining forward;

         Because commonly, recruits are disposed to do the reverse, to project the belly, and to
throw back the shoulders, when they wish to hold themselves erect, from which result great
inconveniences in marching. The habit of inclining forward the upper part of the body is so
important to contract, that the instructor must enforce it at the beginning, particularly with
recruits who have naturally the opposite habit.

                                              Shoulders square;

         Because; if the shoulders be advanced beyond the line of the breast, and the back arched
(the defect called round-shouldered, not uncommon among recruits), the man cannot align
himself, nor use his piece with address. It is important, then, to correct this defect, and necessary
to that end that the coat should set easy about the shoulders and arm-pits; but in correcting this
defect, the instructor will take care that the shoulders be not thrown too much to the rear, which
would cause the belly to project, and the small of the back to be curved.

   The arms hanging naturally, elbows near the body, the palm of the hand a little
          turned to the front, the little finger behind the seam of the pantaloons;
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  12

         Because these positions are equally important to the shoulder-arms, and to prevent the
man from occupying more space in a rank than is necessary to a free use of the piece; they have,
moreover, the advantage of keeping in the shoulders.

                     The face straight to the front, and without constraint;

         Because, if there be stiffness in the latter position, it would communicate itself to the
whole of the upper part of the body, embarrass its movements, and give pain and fatigue.

                                          Eyes direct to the front;

         Because this is the surest means of maintaining the shoulders in line ­ an essential object,
to be insisted on and attained.

         87. The instructor having given the recruit the position of the soldier without arms, will
now teach him the turning of the head and eyes. He will command:

                                      1. Eyes--RIGHT. 2. FRONT.

         88. At the word right, the recruit will turn the head gently, so as to bring the inner corner
of the left eye in a line with the buttons of the coat, the eyes fixed on the line of the eyes of the
men in, or supposed to be in, the same rank.

         89. At the second command, the head will resume the direct or habitual position.
         90. The moveme nt of Eyes--LEFT will be executed by inverse means.
         91. The instructor will take particular care that the movement of the head does not
derange the squareness of the shoulders, which will happen if the movement of the former be too
sudden.
         92. When the instructor shall wish the recruit to pass from the state of attention to that of
ease, he will command:

                                                      REST.

         93. To cause a resumption of the habitual position the instructor will command:

                                         1. Attention. 2. SQUAD.

         94. At the first word, the recruit will fix his attention; at the second, he will resume the
prescribed position and steadiness.

                                                  LESSON II.

                                                  FACINGS.

         95. Facing to the right and left will be executed in one time, or pause. The instructor will
command:

                                  1. Squad. 2. Right (or left)--FACE.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  13

         96. At the second command, raise the right foot slightly, turn on the left heel, raising the
toes a little, and then replace the right heel by the side of the left, and on the same line.

         97. The full face to the rear (or front) will be executed in two times, or pauses. The
instructor will command.

                                      1. Squad. 2. ABOUT--FACE.

         98. (First time.) At the word about, the recruit will turn on the left heel, bring the left toe
to the front, carry the right foot to the rear, the hollow opposite to, and full three inches from, the
left heel, the feet square to each other.

         99. (Second time.) At the word face, the recruit will turn on both heels, raise the toes a
little, extend the hams, face to the rear, bringing, at the same time, the right heel by the side of
the left.

         100. The instructor will take care that these motions do not derange the position of the
body.

                                                 LESSON III.

                             PRINCIPLES OF THE DIRECT STEP.

         101. The length of the direct step, or pace, in common time, will be twenty-eight inches,
reckoning from heel to heel, and in swiftness, at the rate of ninety in a minute.

         102. The instructor, seeing the recruit confirmed in his position, will explain to him the
principle and mechanism of this step-placing himself six or seven paces from, and facing to, the
recruit. He will himself execute slowly the step in the way of illustration, and then command:

                        1. Squad, forward. 2. Common time. 3. MARCH.

         103. At the first command, the recruit will throw the weight of the body, on the right leg,
without bending the left knee.

         104. At the third command, he will smartly, but without a jerk, carry straight forward the
left foot twenty-eight inches from the right, the sole near the ground, the ham extended, the too a
little depressed, and, as also the knee, slightly turned out; he will, at the same time, throw the
weight of the body forward, and plant flat the left foot, without shock, precisely at the distance
where it finds itself from the right when the weight of the body is brought forward, the whole of
which will now rest on the advanced foot. The recruit will next, in like manner, advance the
right foot and plant it as above, the heel twenty-eight inches from the heel of the left foot, and
thus continue to march without crossing the legs, or striking the one against the other, without
turning the shoulders, and preserving always the face direct to the front.

         105. When the instructor shall wish to arrest the march, he will command:

                                             1. Squad. 2. HALT.

         106. At the second command, which will be given at the instant when either foot is
coming to the ground, the foot in the rear will be brought up, and planted by the side of the other,
without shock.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  14

         107. The instructor will indicate, from time to time, to the recruit, the cadence of the step
by giving the command one at the instant of raising a foot, and two at the instant it ought to be
planted, observing the cadence of ninety steps in a minute. This method will contribute greatly
to impress upon the mind the two motions into which the step is naturally divided.

         108. Common time will be employed only in the first and second parts of the School for
the Soldier. As soon as the recruit has acquired steadiness, has become established in the
principles of shouldered arms, and in the mechanism length and swiftness of the step in common
time, he will be practised only in quick time, the double quick time, and the run.

         109. The principles of the step in quick time are the same as for common time, but its
swiftness is at the rate of one hundred and ten steps per minute.

         110. The instructor wishing the squad to march in quick time, will command:

                                     1. Squad, forward. 2. MARCH

                                                 LESSON IV.

                      PRINCIPLES OF THE DOUBLE QUICK STEP.

         111. The length of the double quick step is thirty-three inches, and its swiftness at the
rate of one hundred and sixty-five steps per minute.

         112. The instructor wishing to teach the recruits the principles and mechanism of the
double quick step, will command:

                                   1. Double quick step. 2. MARCH.

         113. At the first command the recruit will raise his hands to a level with his hips, the
hands closed, the nails toward the body, the elbows to the rear.

         114. At the second command, he will raise to the front his left leg bent, in order to give to
the knee the greatest elevation, the part of the leg between the knee and the instep vertical, the
toe depressed; he will then replace his foot in its former position; with the right leg he will
execute what has just been prescribed for the left, and the alternate movement of the legs will be
continued until the command:

                                             1. Squad. 2. HALT.

         115. At the second command, the recruit will bring the foot which is raised by the side of
the other, and dropping at the same time his hands by his side, will resume the position of the
soldier without arms.

         116. The instructor placing himself seven or eight paces from, and facing the recruit, will
indicate the cadence by the commands one and two, given alternately at the instant each foot
should be brought to the ground, which at first will be in common time, but its rapidity will be
gradually augmented.

         117. The recruit being sufficiently established in the principles of this step, the instructor
will command:

                         1. Squad, forward. 2. Double quick. 3. MARCH.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  15

         118. At the first command, the recruit will throw the weight of his body on the right leg.
         119. At the second command he will place his arms as indicated No. 113.
         120. At the third command, he will carry forward the left foot, the leg slightly bent, the
knee somewhat raised ­ will plant his left foot, the toe first, thirty-three inches from the right,
and with the right foot will then execute what has just been prescribed for the left. This alternate
movement of the legs will take place by throwing the weight of the body on the foot that is
planted, and by allowing a natural, oscillatory motion to the arms.
         121. The double quick step may be executed with different degrees of swiftness. Under
urgent circumstances the cadence of this step may be increased to one hundred and eighty per
minute. At this rate a distance of four thousand yards would be passed over in about twenty-five
minutes.
         122. The recruits will be exercised also in running.
         123. The principles are the same as for the double quick step, the only difference
consisting in a greater degree of swiftness.
         124. It is recommended in marching at double quick time, or the run, that the men should
breathe as much as possible through the nose, keeping the mouth closed. Experience has proved
that, by conforming to this principle, a man can pass over a much longer distance, and with less
fatigue.

                                              PART SECOND.

                                            GENERAL RULES.

         125. The instructor will not pass the men to this second part until they shall be well
established in the position of the body, and in the manner of marching at the different steps.

         126. He will then unite four men, whom be will place in the same rank, elbow to elbow,
and instruct them in the position of shouldered arms, as follows:

                                                  LESSON I.

                           PRINCIPLES OF SHOULDERED ARMS.

         127. The recruit being placed as explained in the first lesson of the first part, the
instructor will cause him to bend the right arm slightly, and place the piece in it, in the following
manner.

         128. The piece in the right hand ­ the barrel nearly vertical and resting in the hollow of
the shoulder ­ the guard to the front, the arm hanging nearly at its full length near the body; the
thumb and fore-finger embracing the guard, the remaining fingers closed together, and grasping
the swell of the stock just under the cock, which rests on the little finger.

         129. Recruits are frequently seen with natural defects in the conformation of the
shoulders, breast and hips. These the instructor will labor to correct in the lessons without arms,
and afterwards, by steady endeavors, so that the appearance of the pieces, in the same line, may
be uniform, and this without constraint to the men in their positions.

         130. The instructor will have occasion to remark that recruits, on first bearing arms, are
liable to derange their position by lowering the right shoulder and the right hand, or by sinking
the hip and spreading out the elbows.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  16
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  17

         131. He will be careful to correct all these faults by continually rectifying the position; he
will sometimes take away the piece to replace it the better; he will avoid fatiguing the recruits
too much in the beginning, but labor by degrees to render this position so natural and easy that
they may remain in it a long time without fatigue.

         132. Finally, the instructor will take great care that the piece, at a shoulder, be not carried
too high nor too low: if too high, the right elbow would spread out, the soldier would occupy too
much space in his rank, and the piece be made to waver; if too low, the files would be too much
closed, the soldier would not have the necessary space to handle his piece with facility, the right
arm would become too much fatigued, and would draw down the shoulder.

         133. The instructor, before passing to the second lesson, will cause to be repeated the
movements of eyes right, left, and front, and the facings.

                                                  LESSON II.

                                           MANUAL OF ARMS.

         134. The manual of arms will be taught to four men, placed, at first, in one rank, elbow to
elbow, and afterwards in two ranks.

         135. Each command will be executed in one time (or pause), but this time will be divided
into motions) the better to make known the mechanism.

         136. The rate (or swiftness) of each motion, in the manual of arms, with the exceptions
herein indicated, is fixed at the ninetieth part of a minute, but, in order not to fatigue, the
attention, the instructor will, at first, look more particularly to the execution of the motions,
without requiring a nice observance of the cadence, to which he will bring the recruits
progressively, and after they shall have become a little familiarized with the handling of the
piece.

         137. As the motions relative to the cartridge, to the rammer, and to the fixing and
unfixing of the bayonet, cannot be executed at the rate prescribed, nor even with a uniform
swiftness, they will not be subjected to that cadence. The instructor will, however, labor to cause
these motions to be executed with promptness, and, above all, with regularity.

         138. The last syllable of the command will decide the brisk execution of the first motion
of each time (or pause). The commands two, three, and four, will decide the brisk execution of
the other motions. As soon as the recruits shall well comprehend the positions of the several
motions of a time, they will be taught to execute the time without resting on its different motions;
the mechanism of the time will nevertheless be observed, as well to give a perfect use of the
piece, as to avoid the sinking of, or slurring over, either of the motions.

         139. The manual of arms will be taught in the following progression; the instructor will
command:

                                              Support--ARMS.

                                       One time and three motions.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  18
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  19

         140. (First motion.) Bring the piece, with the right hand, perpendicularly to the front and
between the eyes, the barrel to the rear; seize the piece with the left hand at the lower band, raise
this hand as high as the chin, and seize the piece at the same time with the right hand four inches
below the cock.

         141. (Second motion.) Turn the piece with the right hand, the barrel to the front; carry
the piece to the left shoulder, and pass the fore-arm extended on the breast between the right
hand and the cock; support the cock against the left fore-arm, the left hand resting on the right
breast.

         142. (Third motion.) Drop the right hand by the side.
         143. When the instructor may wish to give repose in this position, he will command:

                                                      REST.

         144. At this command, the recruits will bring up smartly the right hand to the handle of
the piece (small of the stock), when they will not be required to preserve silence, or steadiness of
position.

         145. When the instructor may wish the recruits to pass from this position to that of
silence and steadiness, he will command:

                                         1. Attention. 2. SQUAD.

         146. At the second word, the recruits will resume the position of the third motion of
support arms.

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.

                                       One time and three motions.

         147. (First motion.) Grasp the piece with the right hand under and against the left fore-
arm; seize it with the left hand at the lower band, the thumb extended; detach the piece slightly
from the shoulder, the left fore-arm along the stock.

         148. (Second motion.) Carry the piece vertically to the right shoulder with both hands,
the rammer to the front, change the position of the right hand so as to embrace the guard with the
thumb and fore-finger, slip the left hand to the height of the shoulder, the fingers extended and
joined, the right arm nearly straight.

         149. (Third motion.) Drop the left hand quickly by the side.

                                               Present--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         150. (First motion.) With the right hand, bring the piece erect before the centre of the
body, the rammer to the front; at the same time seize the piece with the left hand half-way
between the guide sight and lower band, the thumb extended along the barrel and against the
stock, the forearm horizontal and resting against the body, the hand as high as the elbow.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  20
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  21

         151. (Second motion.) Grasp the small of the stock with the right hand, below and
against the guard.

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         152. (First motion.) Bring the piece to the right shoulder, at the same time change, the
position of the right hand so as to embrace the guard with the thumb and fore-finger, slip up the
left hand to the height of the shoulder, the fingers extended and joined, the right arm nearly
straight.

         153. (Second motion.) Drop the left hand quickly by the side.

                                                Order--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         154. (First motion.) Seize the piece briskly with the left hand near the upper band, and
detach it slightly from the shoulder with the right hand: loosen the grasp of the right hand, lower
the piece with the left, reseize the piece with the right hand above the lower band, the little finger
in the rear of the barrel, the butt about four inches from the ground, the right hand supported
against the hip, drop the left hand by the side. If the rifle musket is used, the piece will be seized
by the left hand a little above the middle band, and it will be seized by the right hand, just above
the lower band.

         155. (Second motion.) Let the piece slip through the right hand to the ground by opening
slightly the fingers, and take the position about to be described.

                                   POSITION OF ORDER ARMS.

         156. The hand low, the barrel between the thumb and fore-finger extended along the
stock; the other fingers extended and joined; the muzzle about two inches from the right
shoulder; the rammer in front; the toe (or beak) of the butt, against, and in a line with, the toe of
the right foot, the barrel perpendicular.

         157. When the instructor may wish to give repose in this position, he will command:

                                                      REST.

         158. At this command, the recruits will not be required to preserve silence or steadiness.
         159. When the instructor may wish the recruits to pass from this position to that of
silence and steadiness, he will command:

                                         1. Attention. 2. SQUAD.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  22
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  23

         160. At the second word, the recruits will resume the position of order arms.

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         161. (First motion.) Raise the piece vertically with the right hand to the height of the
right breast, and opposite the shoulder, the elbow close to the body; seize the piece with the left
hand below the right, and drop quickly the right hand to grasp the piece at the swell of the stock,
the thumb and fore-finger embracing the guard; press the piece against the shoulder with the left
hand, the right arm nearly straight.

         162. (Second motion.) Drop the left hand quickly by the side.

                                        LOAD IN NINE TIMES.

                                                    1. LOAD.

                                        One time and one motion.

         163. Grasp the piece with the left hand as high as the right elbow, and bring it vertically
opposite the middle of the body, shift the right hand to the upper band, place the butt between the
feet, the barrel to the front; seize it with the left hand near the muzzle, which should be three
inches from the body; carry the right hand to the cartridge-box. If the rifle musket is used the
right hand will be shifted to just below the upper band. The muzzle will be eight inches from the
body.

                                        2. Handle--CARTRIDGE.

                                         One time and one motion.

         164. Seize the cartridge with the thumb and next two fingers, and place it between the
teeth.

                                          3. Tear--CARTRIDGE.

                                         One time and one motion.

         165. Tear the paper to the powder, hold the cartridge upright between the thumb and first
two fingers, near the top; in this position place it in front of and near the muzzle ­ the back of the
hand to the front.

                                        4. Charge--CARTRIDGE.

                                         One time and one motion.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  24
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  25

         166. Empty the powder into the barrel: disengage the ball from the paper with the right
hand and the thumb and first two fingers of the left; insert it into the bore, the pointed end
uppermost, and press it down with the right thumb; seize the head of the rammer with the thumb
and fore-finger of the right hand, the other fingers closed, the elbows near the body.

                                            5. Draw--RAMMER.

                                       One time and three motions.

         167. (First motion.) Half draw the rammer by extending the right arm; steady it in this
position with the left thumb; grasp the rammer near the muzzle with the right hand, the little
finger uppermost, the nails to the front, the thumb extended along the rammer.

         168. (Second motion.) Clear the rammer from the pipes by again extending the arm; the
rammer in the prolongation of the pipes.

         169. (Third motion.) Turn the rammer, the little end of the rammer passing near the left
shoulder; place the head of the rammer on the ball, the back of the hand to the front.

                                          6. Ram--CARTRIDGE.

                                         One time and one motion.

         170. Insert the rammer as far as the right, and steady it in this position with the thumb of
the left hand; seize the rammer at the small end with the thumb and fore-finger of the right hand,
the back of the band to the front; press the ball home, the elbows near the body.

                                           7. Return--RAMMER.

                                       One time and three motions.

         171. (First motion.) Draw the rammer half-way out, and steady it in this position with
the left thumb; grasp it near the muzzle with the right hand, the little finger uppermost, the nails
to the front, the thumb along the rammer: clear the rammer from the bore by extending the arm,
the nails to the front, the rammer in the prolongation of the bore.

         172. (Second motion.) Turn the rammer, the head of the rammer passing near the left
shoulder, and insert it in the pipes until the right hand reaches the muzzle, the nails to the front.

         173. (Third motion.) Force the rammer home by placing the little finger of the right hand
on the head of the rammer; pass the left hand down the barrel to the extent of the arm, without
depressing the shoulder.

                                                   8. PRIME.

                                        One time and two motions.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  26
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  27

         174. (First motion.) With the left hand raise the piece till the band is as high as the eye,
grasp the small of the stock with the right hand; half face to the right; place, at the same time, the
right foot behind and at right angles with the left; the hollow of the right foot against the left
heel. Slip the left hand down to the lower band, the thumb along the stock, the left elbow against
the body; bring the piece to the right side the butt below the right fore-arm ­ the small of the
stock against the body and two inches below the right breast, the barrel upwards, the muzzle on a
level with the eye.

         175. (Second motion.) Half cock with the thumb of the right hand, the fingers supported
against the guard and the small of the stock remove the old cap with one of the fingers of the
right hand, and with the thumb and forefinger of the same hand, take a cap from the pouch, place
it on the nipple, and press it down with the thumb; seize the small of the stock with the right
hand.

                                            9. Shoulder--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         176. (First motion.) Bring the piece to the right shoulder and support it there with the
left band, face to the front; bring the right heel to the side of and on a line with the left; grasp the
piece with the right hand as indicated in the position of shoulder arms.

         177. (Second motion.) Drop the left hand quickly by the side.

                                                     READY.

                                       One time and three motions.

         178. (First motion.) Raise the piece slightly with the right hand, making a half face to
the right on the left heel; carry the right foot to the rear, and place it at right angles to the left, the
hollow of it opposite to and against the left heel; grasp the piece with the left hand at the lower
band and detach it slightly from the shoulder.

         179. (Second motion.) Bring down the piece with both hands, the barrel upward, the left
thumb extended along the stock, the butt below the right fore-arm the small of the stock against
the body and two inches below the right breast, the muzzle as high as the eye, the left elbow
against the side; place at the same time the right thumb on the head of the cock the other fingers
wider and against the guard.

         180. (Third motion.) Cock, and seize the piece at the small of the stock without
deranging the position of the butt.

                                                       AIM.

                                         One time and one motion.

         181. Raise the piece with both hands, and support the butt against the right shoulder; the
left, elbow down, the right as high as the shoulder; incline the head upon the butt, so that the
right eye may perceive quickly the notch of the hausse, the front sight, and the object aimed at,
the left eye closed, the right thumb extended along the stock, the fore-finger on the trigger.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  28
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  29

         182. When recruits are formed in two ranks to execute the firings, the front-rank men
will raise it, little less the right elbow, in order to facilitate the aim of the rear-rank men.

         183. The rear-rank men, in aiming, will each carry the right foot about eight inches to the
right, and towards the left heel of the man next it the right, inclining the upper part of the body
forward.

                                                      FIRE.

                                         One time and one motion.

         184. Press the fore-finger against the trigger, fire, without lowering or turning the head,
and remain in this position.

         185. Instructors will be careful to observe when the men fire, that they aim at some
distinct object, and that the barrel be so directed that the line of fire and the line of sight be in the
same vertical plane. They will often cause the firing to be executed on ground of different
inclinations, in order to accustom the men to fire at objects either above or below them.

                                                      LOAD.

                                         One time and one motion.

         186. Bring down the piece with both hands at the same time face to the front and take the
position of load as indicated, No. 163. Each rear-rank man will bring his right foot by the side of
the left.

         187. The men being in this position, the instructor will cause the loading to be continued
by the commands and means prescribed, No. 163, and following.

         188. If, after firing, the instructor should not wish the recruits to reload, he will
command:

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.

                                         One time and one motion.

         189. Throw up the piece briskly with the left hand and resume the position of shoulder
arms, at the same time face to the front, turning on the left heel, and bring the right heel on a line
with the left.

         190. To accustom the recruits to wait for the command fire, the instructor, when they are
in the position of aim, will command:

                                               Recover--ARMS.

                                         One time and one motion.

         191. At the first part of the command, withdraw the finger from the trigger; at the
command arms, retake the position of the third motion of ready.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  30
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  31

         192. The recruits being in the position of the third motion of ready, if the instructor
should wish to bring them to a shoulder, he will command:

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.

                                         One time and one motion.

         193. At the command shoulder, place the thumb upon the cock, the fore-finger on the
trigger, half cock, and seize the small of the stock with the right hand. At the command arms,
bring up the piece briskly to the right shoulder, and retake the position of shoulder arms.

                            REMARKS ON LOADING AND FIRING.

         194. Whenever the loadings and firings are to be executed, and the cartridge-boxes are
slung upon the waist-belt, the instructor will cause them to be brought to the front.

         195. If Maynard's primer be used the command will be

                                             Load in eight times.

and the eighth command will be shoulder arms, and executed from return rammer in one time
and two motions, as follows:

         (First motion.) Raise the piece with the left hand, and take the position of shoulder arms
as indicated No. 152.

         (Second motion.) Drop the left hand quickly by the side.
         196. The recruits being at shoulder arms, when the instructor shall wish to fix bayonets,
he will command:

                                               Fix--BAYONET.

                                       One time and three motions.

         197. (First motion.) Grasp the piece with the left hand at the height of the shoulder, and
detach it slightly from the shoulder with the right hand.

         198. (Second motion.) Quit the piece with the right hand, lower it with the left hand,
opposite the middle of the body, and place the butt between the feet without shock; the rammer
to the rear, the barrel vertical, the muzzle three inches from the body; seize it with the right hand
at the upper band, and carry the left hand reversed to the handle of the bayonet. If the rifle
musket be used the barrel will be inclined forward, the muzzle eight inches from the body, and
the left hand reversed to the handle of the bayonet.

         199. (Third motion.) Draw the bayonet from the scabbard and fix it on the extremity of
the barrel; seize the piece with the left hand, the arm extended, the right hand at the upper band.
If the rifle musket be used the clasp will be turned as soon as the bayonet is fixed upon the
barrel.

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  32

                                        One time and two motions.

         200. (First motion.) Raise the piece with the left hand and place it against the right
shoulder, the rammer to the front: seize the piece at the same time with the right hand at the swell
of the stock, the thumb and fore-finger embracing the guard, the right arm nearly extended.

         201. (Second motion.) Drop briskly the left hand by the side.

                                            Charge--BAYONET.

                                        One time and two motions.

         202. (First motion.) Raise the piece slightly with the right hand and make a half face to
the right on the left heel; place the hollow of the right foot opposite to, and three inches from the
left heel, the feet square; seize the piece at the same time with the left hand a little above the
lower band.

         203. (Second motion.) Bring down the piece with both hands, the barrel uppermost, the
left elbow against the body; seize the small of the stock, at the same time, with the right hand,
which will be supported against the hip; the point of the bayonet as high as the eye.

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         204. (First motion.) Throw up the piece briskly with the left band in facing to the front,
place it against the right shoulder, the rammer to the front; turn the right hand so as to embrace
the guard, slide the left hand to the height of the shoulder, the right hand nearly extended.

         205. (Second motion.) Drop the left hand smartly by the side.

                                                Trail--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         206. (First motion.) The same as the first motion of order arms.
         207. (Second motion.) Incline the muzzle slightly to the front, the butt to the rear and
about four inches from the ground. The right hand supported at the hip, will so hold the piece
that the rear-rank men may not touch with their bayonets the men in the front-rank.

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.

         208. At the command shoulder, raise the piece perpendicularly in the right hand, the little
finger in the rear of the barrel; at the command arms, execute what has been prescribed for the
shoulder from the position of order arms.

                                             Unfix--BAYONET.

                                       One time and three motions.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  33
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  34

         209. (First and second motions.) The same as the first and second motions of fix
bayonet, except that, at the end of the second command, the thumb of the right hand will be
placed on the spring of the sabre-bayonet, and the left hand will embrace the handle of the sabre-
bayonet and the barrel, the thumb extended along the blade. If the rifle musket is used, at the end
of the second command turn the clasp of the bayonet by pressing against it with the thumb of the
left hand, and then grasp the socket of the bayonet with the left hand, the shank resting between
the thumb and fore-finger, the thumb pointed up.

         210. (Third motion.) Press the thumb of the right hand on the spring, wrest off the sabre
bayonet, turn it to the right, the edge to the front, lower the guard until it touches the right hand,
which will seize the back and the edge of the blade between the thumb and first two fingers, the
other fingers holding the piece; change the position of the hand without quitting the handle,
return the sabre-bayonet to the scabbard, and seize the piece with the left hand, the arm extended.
If the rifle musket is used, the following will be the method, viz.: (Third motion.) Wrest off the
bayonet, turn it to the right, bringing the point of the bayonet down; change the position of the
hand without quitting hold of the shank of the socket, return the bayonet to the scabbard, and
seize the piece with the left hand, the arm extended.

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         211. (First motion.) The same as the first motion from fix bayonet, No. 200.
         212. (Second motion.) The same as the second motion from fix bayonet, No. 201.

                                                 Secure--ARMS.

                                        One time and three motions.

         213. (First motion.) The same as the first motion of support arms, No. 140, except with
the right hand seize the piece at the small of the stock.

         214. (Second motion.) Turn the piece with both hands, the barrel to the front; bring it
opposite the left shoulder, the butt against the hip, the left hand at the lower band the thumb as
high as the chin and extended on the rammer; the piece erect and detached from the shoulder, the
left fore-arm against the piece.

         215. (Third motion.) Reverse the piece, pass it under the left arm, the left hand
remaining at the lower band, the thumb on the rammer to prevent it from sliding out, the little
finger resting against the hip, the right hand falling at the same time by the side.

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.

                                       One time and three motions.

         216. (First motion.) Raise the piece with the left hand, and seize it with the right hand at
the small of the stock. The piece erect and detached from the shoulder, the butt against the hip,
the left fore-arm along the piece.

         217. (Second motion.) The same as the second motion of shoulder arms from a support.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  35
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  36

         218. (Third motion.) The same as the third motion of shoulder arms from a support.

                                      Right shoulder shift--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         219. (First motion.) Detach the piece perpendicularly from the shoulder with the right
hand, and seize it with the left between the lower band and guide-sight, raise the piece, the left
hand at the height of the shoulder and four inches from it; place, at the same time, the right hand
on the butt, the beak between the first two fingers, the other two fingers under the butt plate.

         220. (Second motion.) Quit the piece with the left hand, raise and place the piece on the
right shoulder with the right hand, the lock plate upward; let fall at the same time, the left hand
by the side.

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         221. (First motion.) Raise the piece perpendicularly by extending the right arm to its full
length, the rammer to the front; at the same time seize the piece with the left hand between the
lower band and guide sight.

         222. (Second motion.) Quit the butt with the right hand, which will immediately embrace
the guard, lower the piece to the position of shoulder arms, slide up the left hand to the height of
the shoulder, the fingers extended and closed. Drop the left hand by the side.

         223. The men being at support arms, the instructor will sometimes cause pieces to be
brought to the right shoulder. To this effect he will command:

                                      Right shoulder shift--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         224. (First motion.) Seize the piece with the right hand, below and near the left fore-arm,
place the left hand under the butt, the heel of the butt between the first two fingers.

         225. (Second motion.) Turn the piece with the left hand, the lock plate upward, carry it
to the right shoulder, the left hand still holding the butt, the muzzle elevated; hold the piece in
this position and place the right hand upon the butt, as is prescribed No. 219, and let fall the left
hand by the side.

                                              Support--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         226. (First motion.) The same as the first motion of shoulder arms, No. 221.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  37
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  38
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  39

         227. (Second motion.) Turn the piece with both hands, the barrel to the front, carry it
opposite the left shoulder, slip the right hand to the small of the stock, place the left fore-arm
extended on the breast, as is prescribed No. 141, and let fall the right hand by the side.

                                              Arms--AT WILL.

                                         One time and one motion.

         228. At this command, carry the piece at pleasure on either shoulder, with one or both
hands, the muzzle elevated.

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.

                                         One time and one motion.

         229. At this command, retake quickly the position of shoulder arms.
         230. The recruits being at ordered arms, when the instructor shall wish to cause the
pieces to be placed on the ground, he will command:

                                               Ground--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         231. (First motion.) Turn the piece with the right hand, the barrel to the left, at the same
time seize the cartridge box with the left hand, bend the body, advance the left foot, the heel
opposite the lower band; lay the piece on the ground with the right hand, the toe of the butt on a
line with the right toe, the knees slightly bent, the right heel raised.

         232. (Second motion.) Rise up, bring the left foot by the side of the right, quit the
cartridge box with the left hand, and drop the hands by the side.

                                                Raise--ARMS.

                                        One time and two motions.

         233. (First motion.) Seize the cartridge box with the left hand, bend the body, advance
the left foot opposite the lower band, and seize the piece with the right hand.

         234. (Second motion.) Raise the piece, bringing the left foot by the side of the right; turn
the piece with the right hand, the rammer to the front; at the same time quit the cartridge box
with the left hand, and drop this hand by the side.

                                       INSPECTION OF ARMS.

         235. The recruits being at ordered arms, and having the bayonet in the scabbard, if the
instructor wishes to cause an inspection of arms, he will command:

                                             Inspection--ARMS.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  40
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  41

                                        One time and two motions.

         236. (First motion.) Seize the piece with the left hand below and near the upper band,
carry it with both bands opposite the middle of the body, the butt between the feet, the rammer to
the rear, the barrel vertical, the muzzle about three inches from the body; (should the rifle musket
be used, the muzzle will be about eight inches from the body); carry the left hand reversed to the
bayonet, draw it from the scabbard and fix it on the barrel; grasp the piece with the left band
below and near the upper band, seize the rammer with the thumb and fore-finger of the right
hand bent, the other fingers closed.

         237. (Second motion.) Draw the rammer as has been explained in loading, and let it
glide to the bottom of the bore, replace the piece with the left hand opposite the right shoulder,
and retake the position of ordered arms.

         238. The instructor will then inspect in succession the piece of each recruit, in passing
along the front of the rank. Each, as the instructor reaches him, will raise smartly his piece with
his right hand, seize it with the left between the lower band and guide sight, the lock to the front,
the left hand at the height of the chin, the piece opposite to the left eye; the instructor will take it
with the right hand at the handle and, after inspecting it, will return it to the recruit, who will
receive it back with the right hand, and replace it in the position of ordered arms.

         239. When the instructor shall have passed him, each recruit will retake the position
prescribed at the command inspection, return the rammer, unfix the bayonet, and resume the
position of ordered arms.

         240. If, instead of inspection of arms, the instructor should merely wish to cause
bayonets to be fixed, he will command:

                                               Fix--BAYONET.

         241. Take the position indicated No. 236, fix bayonets as has been explained, and
immediately resume the position of ordered arms.

         242. If it be the wish of the instructor, after firing, to ascertain whether the pieces have
been discharged, he will command:

                                            Spring--RAMMERS.

         243. Put the rammer in the barrel, as has been explained above, and immediately retake
the position of ordered arms.

         244. The instructor, for the purpose stated, can take the rammer by the small end, and
spring it in the barrel, or cause each recruit to make it ring in the barrel.

         245. Each recruit, after the instructor passes him, will return rammer, and resume the
position of ordered arms.

                           REMARKS ON THE MANUAL OF ARMS.

         246. The manual of arms frequently distorts the persons of recruits before they acquire
ease and confidence in the several positions. The instructor will therefore frequently recur to
elementary principles in the course of the lessons.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  42

         247. Recruits are also extremely liable to curve the sides and back, and to derange the
shoulders, especially in loading. Consequently, the instructor will not cause them to dwell too
long at a time in one position.

         248. When, after some days of exercise in the manual of arms, the four men shall be well
established in their use, the instructor will always terminate the lesson by marching the men for
some time in one rank, and at one pace apart, in common and quick time, in order to confirm
them more and more in the mechanism of the step; he will also teach them to mark time, and to
change step, which will be executed in the following manner:

                                             TO MARK TIME.

         249. The four men marching in the direct step, the instructor will command:

                                        1. Mark time. 2. MARCH.

         250. At the second command, which will be given at the instant a foot is coming to the
ground, the recruits will make a semblance of marching, by bringing the heels by the side of each
other, and observing the cadence of the step, by raising each foot alternately without advancing.

         251. The instructor wishing the direct step to be resumed, will command:

                                         1. Forward. 2. MARCH.

         252. At the second command, which will be given as prescribed above, the recruits will
retake the step of twenty-eight inches.

                                           TO CHANGE STEP.

         253. The squad being in march, the instructor will command:

                                       1. Change step. 2. MARCH.

         254. At the second command, which will be given at the instant either foot is coming to
the ground, bring the foot which is in rear by the side of that which is in front, and step off again
with the foot which was in front.

                                       TO MARCH BACKWARD.

         255. The instructor wishing the squad to march backward, will command:

                                    1. Squad backward. 2. MARCH.

         256. At the second command, the recruits will step off smartly with the left foot fourteen
inches to the rear, reckoning from heel to heel, and so with the feet in succession till the
command halt, which will always be preceded by the caution squad. The men will halt at this
command, and bring back the foot in front by the side of the other.

         257. This step will always be executed in quick time.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  43

         258. The instructor will be watchful that the recruits march straight to the rear, and that
the erect position of the body and the piece be not deranged.

                                                 LESSON III.

                                     TO LOAD IN FOUR TIMES.

         259. The object of this lesson is to prepare the recruits to load at will, and to cause them
to distinguish the times which require the greatest regularity and attention, such as charge
cartridge, ram cartridge, and prime. It will be divided as follows:

         260. The first time will be executed at the end of the command; the three others at the
commands, two, three and four. The instructor will command:

                                    1. Load in four times. 2. LOAD.

         261. Execute the times to include charge cartridge.

                                                      TWO.

         262. Execute the times to include ram cartridge.

                                                     THREE.

         263. Execute the times to include prime.

                                                      FOUR.

         264. Execute the time of shoulder arms.

                                           TO LOAD AT WILL.

         265. The instructor will next teach loading at will, which will be executed as loading in
four times, but continued, and without resting on either of the times. He will command:

                                        1. Load at will. 2. LOAD.

         266. The instructor will habituate the recruits, by degrees, to load with the greatest
possible promptitude, each without regulating himself by his neighbor, and above all without
waiting for him.

         267. The cadence prescribed No. 136, is not applicable to loading in four times, or at
will.

                                                 LESSON IV.

                                                   FIRINGS.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  44

         268. The firings are direct or oblique, and will be executed as follows:

                                           THE DIRECT FIRE.

         269. The instructor will give the following commands:

          1. Fire by Squad. 2. Squad. 3. READY. 4. AIM. 5. FIRE. 6. LOAD.

         270. These several commands will be executed as has been prescribed in the Manual of
Arms. At the third command, the men will come to the position of ready, as heretofore
explained. At the fourth they will aim according to the rank in which each may find himself
placed, the rearwards men inclining forward a little the upper part of the body, in order that their
pieces may reach as much beyond the front-rank as possible.

         271. At the sixth command, they will load their pieces and return immediately to the
position of ready.

         272. The instructor will recommence the firing by the commands:

                                1. Squad. 2. AIM. 3. FIRE. 4. LOAD.

         273. When the instructor wishes the firing to cease he will command:

                                               Cease--FIRING.

         274. At this command the men will cease firing, but will load their pieces if unloaded,
and afterward bring them to a shoulder.

                                           OBLIQUE FIRINGS.

         275. The oblique firings will be executed to the right and left, and by the same
commands as the direct fire, with this single difference ­ the command aim will always be
preceded by the caution, right or left oblique.

POSITION OF THE TWO RANKS IN THE OBLIQUE FIRE TO THE RIGHT.

         276. At the command ready, the two ranks will execute what has been prescribed for the
direct fire.

         277. At the cautionary command, right oblique, the two ranks will throw back the right
shoulder, and look steadily at the object to be hit.

         278. At the command aim, each front-rank man will aim to the right without deranging
the feet; each rear-rank man will advance the left foot about eight inches toward the right heel of
the man next on the right of his file leader, and aim to the right, inclining the upper part of the
body forward, and bending a little the left knee.

 POSITION OF THE TWO RANKS IN THE OBLIQUE FIRE TO THE LEFT.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  45

         279. At the cautionary command left oblique, the two ranks will throw back the left
shoulder, and look steadily at the object to be hit.

         280. At the command aim, the front-rank will take aim to the left without deranging the
feet; each man in the rear-rank will advance the right foot, about eight inches toward the right
heel of the man next on the right of his file leader, and aim to the left, inclining the upper part of
the body forward, and bending a little the right knee.

         281. In both cases, at the command load, the men of each rank will come to the position
of load as prescribed in the direct fire; the rear-rank men bringing back the foot which is to the
right and front by the side of the other. Each man will continue to load as if isolated.

                                            TO FIRE BY FILE.

         282. The fire by file will be executed by the two ranks, the files of which will fire
successively, and without regulating on each other, except for the first fire.

         283. The instructor will command:

              1. Fire by file. 2. Squad. 3. READY. 4. COMMENCE FIRING.

         284. At the third command, the two ranks will take the position prescribed in the direct
fire.

         285. At the fourth command, the file on the right will aim and fire; the rear-rank man in
aiming will take the position indicated No. 183.

         286. The men of this file will load their pieces briskly and fire a second time; reload and
fire again, and so on in continuation.

         287. The second file will aim, at the instant the first brings down pieces to reload, and
will conform in all respects to that which has just been prescribed for the first file.

         288. After the first fire, the front and rear-rank men will not be required to fire at the
same time.

         289. Each man, after loading, will return to the position of ready and continue the fire.
         290. When the instructor wishes the fire to cease, he will command:

                                               Cease--FIRING.

         291. At this command, the men will cease firing. If they have fired, they will load their
pieces and bring them to a shoulder; if at the position of ready, they will half-cock and shoulder
arms. If in the position of aim, they will bring down their pieces, half-cock, and shoulder arms.

                                           TO FIRE BY RANK.

         292. The fire by rank will be executed by each entire rank, alternately.
         293. The instructor will command:

 1. Fire by rank. 2. Squad. 3. READY. 4. Rear rank. 5. AIM. 6. FIRE. 7. LOAD.

         294. At the third command, the two ranks will take the position of ready, as prescribed in
the direct fire.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  46

         295. At the seventh command, the rear-rank will execute that which has been prescribed
in the direct fire, and afterward take the position of ready.

         296. As soon as the instructor sees several men of the rear-rank in the position of ready,
he will command:

                            1. Front rank. 2. AIM. 3. FIRE. 4. LOAD.

         297. At these commands, the men in the front-rank will execute what has been prescribed
for the rear-rank, but they will not step off with the right foot.

         298. The instructor will recommence the firing by the rear-rank, and will thus continue to
alternate from rank to rank, until he shall wish the firing to cease, when he will command, cease
firing which will be executed as heretofore prescribed.

                                                  LESSON V.

                                TO FIRE AND LOAD KNEELING.

         299. In this exercise, the squad will be supposed loaded and drawn up in one rank. The
instruction will be given to each man individually, without times or motions, and in the
following manner:

         300. The instructor will command:

                                    FIRE AND LOAD KNEELING.

         301. At this command, the man on the right of the squad will move forward three paces
and halt; then carry the right foot to the rear and to the right of the left heel, and in a position
convenient for placing the right knee upon the ground in bending the left leg: place the right knee
upon the ground; lower the piece, the left fore-arm supported upon the thigh on the same side,
the right hand on the small of the stock, the butt resting on the right thigh, the left hand
supporting the piece near the lower band.

         302. He will next move the right leg to the left around the knee, supported on the ground,
until this leg is nearly perpendicular to the direction of the left foot, and thus seat himself
comfortably on the right heel.

         303. Raise the piece with the right hand and support it with the left, holding it near the
lower band, the left elbow resting on the left thigh near the knee; seize the hammer with the
thumb, the fore-finger under the guard, cock and seize the piece at the small of the stock; bring
the piece to the shoulder, aim and fire.

         304. Bring the piece down as soon as it is fired, and support it with the left hand, the butt
resting against the right thigh; carry the piece to the rear rising on the knee, the barrel downward,
the butt resting on the ground; in this position support the piece with the left hand at the upper
band, draw cartridge with the right and load the piece, ramming the ball, if necessary, with both
hands.

         305. When loaded bring the piece to the front with the left hand, which holds it at the
upper band; seize it at the same time with the right hand at the small of the stock; turn the piece,
the barrel uppermost and nearly horizontal, the left elbow resting on the left thigh; half cock,
remove the old cap and prime, rise, and return to the ranks.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  47
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  48

         306. The second man will then be taught what has just been prescribed for the first, and
so on through the remainder of the squad.

                                    TO FIRE AND LOAD LYING.

         307. In this exercise the squad will be in one rank and loaded; the instruction will be
given individually and without times or motions.

         308. The instructor will command:

                                        FIRE AND LOAD LYING.

         309. At this comma nd, the man on the right of the squad will move forward three paces
and halt; he will then bring his piece to an order, drop on both knees, and place himself on the
ground flat on his belly. In this position he will support the piece nearly horizontal with the left
hand, holding it near the lower band, the butt end of the piece and the left elbow resting on the
ground, the barrel uppermost; cock the piece with the right hand, and carry this hand to the small
of the stock; raise the piece with both hands, press the butt against the shoulder, and, resting on
both elbows, aim and fire.

         310. As soon as he has fired, bring the piece down and turn upon his left side, still resting
on his left elbow; bring back the piece until the cock is opposite his breast, the butt end resting
on the ground; take out a cartridge with the right hand; seize the small of the stock with this
hand, holding the cartridge with the thumb and two first fingers; he will then throw himself on
his back, still holding the piece with both hands carry the piece to the rear, place the butt between
the heels, the barrel up, the muzzle elevated. In this position, charge cartridge, draw rammer,
ram cartridge, and return rammer.

         311. When finished loading, the man will turn again upon his left side, remove the old
cap and prime, then raise the piece vertically, rise, turn about, and resume his position in the
ranks.

         312. The second man will be taught what has just been prescribed for the first, and so on
throughout the squad.

                                                 LESSON VI.

                                         BAYONET EXERCISE.

         313. The bayonet exercise in this book will be confined to two movements, the guard
against infantry, and the guard against cavalry. The men will be placed in one rank, with two
paces interval, and, being at shoulder arms, the instructor will command:

                               1. Guard against Infantry. 2. GUARD.

                                        One time and two motions.

         314. (First motion.) Make a half face to the right, turning on both heels, the feet square
to each other; at the same time raise the piece slightly, and seize it with the left hand above and
near the lower band.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  49
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  50

         315. (Second motion.) Carry the right foot twenty inches perpendicularly to the rear, the
right heel on the prolongation of the left, the knees slightly bent, the weight of the body resting
equally on both legs; lower the piece with both hands, the barrel uppermost, the left elbow
against the body; seize the piece at the same time with the right hand at the small of the stock,
the arms falling naturally, the point of the bayonet slightly elevated.

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.

                                         One time and one motion.

         316. Throw up the piece with the left hand, and place it against the right shoulder, at the
same time bring the right heel by the side of the left and face to the front.

                               1. Guard against Cavalry. 2. GUARD.

                                        One time and two motions.

         317. Both motions the same as for guard against infantry except that the right hand will
be supported against the hip, and the bayonet held at the height of the eye, as in charge bayonet.

                                              Shoulder--ARMS.

                                         One time and one motion.

         318. Spring up the piece with the left hand and place it against the right shoulder, at the
same time bring the right heel by the side of the left, and face to the front.

                                                PART THIRD.

         319. When the recruits are well established in the principles and mechanism of the step,
the position of the body, and the manual of arms, the instructor will unite eight men, at least, and
twelve men at most, in order to teach them the principles of alignment, the principles of the
touch of elbows in marching to the front, the principles of the march by the flank, wheeling from
a halt, wheeling in marching, and the change of direction to the side of the guide. He will place
the squad in one rank, elbow to elbow, and number the men from right to left.

                                                  LESSON I.

                                               ALIGNMENTS.

         320. The instructor will at first teach the recruits to align themselves, man by man, in
order the better to make them comprehend the principles of alignment; to this end, he will
command the two men on the right flank to march two paces to the front, and having aligned
them, be will caution the remainder of the squad to move up, as they may be successively called,
each by his number, and align themselves successively or the line of the first two men.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  51
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  52

         321. Each recruit, as designated by his number will turn the head and eyes to the right, as
prescribed in the first lesson of the first part, and will march in quick time two paces forward,
shortening the last, so as to find himself about six inches behind the new alignment, which he
ought never to pass: he will next move up steadily by steps of two or three inches, the hams
extended, to the side of the man next to him on the alignment, so that, without deranging the
head, the line of the eyes, or that of the shoulders, he may find himself in the exact line of his
neighbor, whose elbow he will lightly touch without opening his own.

         322. The instructor seeing the rank well aligned, will command:

                                                     FRONT.

         323. At this, the recruits will turn eyes to the front, and remain firm.
         324. Alignments to the left will be executed on the same principles.
         325. When the recruits shall have thus learned to align themselves, ma n by man,
correctly, and without groping or jostling, the instructor will cause the entire rank to align itself
at once by the command:

                                          Right (or left)--DRESS.

         326. At this the rank, except the two men placed in advance as a basis of alignment will
move up in quick time and place themselves on the new line, according to the principles
prescribed No. 321.

         327. The instructor, placed five or six paces in front, and facing the rank, will carefully
observe that the principles are followed, and then pass to the flank that has served as a basis to
verify the alignment.

         328. The instructor, seeing the greater number of the rank aligned, will command:

                                                     FRONT.

         329. The instructor may afterward order this or that file forward or back, designating
each by its number. The file or files designated, only, will slightly turn the head toward the
basis, to judge how much they ought to move up or back, steadily place themselves on the line,
and then turn eyes to the front, without a particular command to that effect.

         330. Alignments to the rear will be executed on the same principles, the recruits stepping
back a little beyond the line, and then dressing up according to the principles prescribed No. 321
the instructor commanding:

                                   Right (or left) backward--DRESS.

         331. After each alignment, the instructor will examine the position of the men, and cause
the rank to come to ordered arms, to prevent too much fatigue, and also the danger of negligence
at shouldered arms.

                                                  LESSON II.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  53

         332. The men having learned, in the first and second parts to march with steadiness in
common time, and to take steps equal in length and swiftness, will be exercised in the third part
only in quick time, double quick time, and the run; the instructor will cause them to execute
successively, at these different gaits, the march to the front, the facing about in marching, the
march by the flank, the wheels at a halt and in marching, and the changes of direction to the side
of the guide.

         333. The instructor will inform the recruits that at the command march, they will always
move off in quick time, unless this command should be preceded by that of double quick.

                                    TO MARCH TO THE FRONT.

         334. The rank being correctly aligned, when the instructor shall wish to cause it to march
by the front, he will place a well instructed man on the right or the left, according to the side on
which he may wish the guide to be, and command:

                    1. Squad, forward. 2. Guide right (or left). 3. MARCH.

         335. At the command march, the rank will step off smartly with the left foot; the guide
will take care to march straight to the front, keeping his shoulders always in a square with that
line.

         336. The instructor will observe, in marching to the front, that the men touch lightly the
elbow toward the side of the guide; that they do not open out the left elbow, nor the right arm;
that they yield to pressure coming from the side of the guide, and resist that coining from the
opposite side; that they recover by insensible degrees, the slight touch of the elbow, if lost; that
they maintain the head direct to the front, no matter on which side the guide may be; and if found
before or behind the alignment, that the man in fault corrects himself by shortening or
lengthening the step, by degrees, almost insensible.

         337. The instructor will labor to cause recruits to comprehend that the alignment can only
be preserved, in marching, by the regularity of the step, the touch of the elbow, and the
maintenance of the shoulders in a square with the line of direction: that if, for example, the step
of some be longer than that of others, or if some march faster than others, a separation of elbows,
and a loss of the alignment, would be inevitable; that if (it being required that the head should be
direct to the front) they do not strictly observe the touch of elbows, it would be impossible for an
individual to judge whether he marches abreast with his neighbor, or not, and whether there be
not an interval between them.

         338. The impulsion of the quick step having a tendency to make men too easy and free in
their movements, the instructor will be careful to regulate the cadence of this step, and to
habituate them to preserve always the erectness of the body, and the due length of the pace.

         339. The men being well established in the principles of the direct march, the instructor
will exercise them in marching obliquely. The rank being in march, the instructor will
command:

                                 1. Right (or left) oblique. 2. MARCH.

         340. At the second command, each man will make a half face to the right (or left), and
will then march straight-forward in the new direction. As the men no longer touch elbows, they
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  54

will glance along the shoulders of the nearest files, toward the side to which they are obliquing,
and will regulate their steps so that the shoulder shall always be behind that of their next
neighbor on that side, and that his head shall conceal the heads of the other men in the rank.
Besides this, the men should preserve the same length of pace, and the same degree of obliquity.

         341. The instructor wishing to resume the primitive direction, will command:

                                         1. Forward. 2. MARCH.

         342. At the second command, each man will make a half face to the left (or right), and all
will then march straight to the front, conforming to the principles of the direct march.

               TO MARCH TO THE FRONT IN DOUBLE QUICK TIME.

         343. When the several principles, heretofore explained, have become familiar to the
recruits, and they shall be well established in the position of the body, the bearing of arms, and
the mechanism length, and swiftness of the step, the instructor will pass them from quick to
double quick time, and the reverse, observing not to make them march obliquely in double quick
time, till they are well established in the cadence of this step.

         344. The squad being at a march in quick time, the instructor will command:

                                      1. Double quick. 2. MARCH.

         345. At the command march, which will be given when either foot is coming to the
ground, the squad will step off in double quick time. The men will endeavor to follow the
principles laid down in the first part of this book, and to preserve the alignment.

         346. When the instructor wishes the squad to resume the step in quick time, he will
command:

                                        1. Quick time. 2. MARCH.

         347. At the command march, which will be given when either foot is coming to the
ground, the squad will retake the step in quick time.

         348. The squad being in march, the instructor will halt it by the commands and means
prescribed Nos. 105 and 106. The command halt will be given an instant before the foot is ready
to be placed on the ground.

         349. The squad being in march in double quick time, the instructor will occasionally
cause it to mark time by the commands prescribed No. 249. The men will then mark double
quick time, without altering the cadence of the step. He will also cause them to pass from the
direct to the oblique step, and reciprocally, conforming to what has been prescribed No. 339, and
following.

         350. The squad being at a halt, the instructor will cause it to march in double quick time,
by preceding the command march, by double quick.

         351. The instructor will endeavor to regulate well the cadence of the step.

                                TO FACE ABOUT IN MARCHING.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  55

         352. If the squad be marching in quick, or double quick time, and the instructor should
wish to march it in retreat, he will command:

                                   1. Squad right about. 2. MARCH.

         353. At the command march, which will be given at the instant the left foot is coming to
the ground, the recruit will bring this foot to the ground, and turning on it, will face to the rear;
he will then place the right foot in the new direction, and step off with the left foot.

         354. If the instructor should wish merely to face the squad about, without marching it in
retreat, he will command:

                                    1. Squad right about. 2. HALT.

         355. At the command halt, which will be given the instant the left foot is coming to the
ground, the recruit will face about as prescribed No. 353; he will then place the right foot by the
side of the left.

                                       TO MARCH BACKWARD.

         356. The squad being at a halt, if the instructor should wish to march it in the back step,
he will command:

                   1. Squad backward. 2. Guide left (or right). 3. MARCH.

         357. The back step will be executed by the means prescribed No. 256.
         358. The instructor in this step will be watchful that the men do not lean on each other.
         359. As the march to the front in quick time should only be executed at shouldered arms,
the instructor, in order not to fatigue the men too much, and also to prevent negligence in gait
and position, will halt the squad from time to time, and cause arms to be ordered.
         360. In marching at double quick time, the men will always carry their pieces on the right
shoulder or at a trail. This rule is general.
         361. If the instructor shall wish the pieces carried at a trail he will give the command trail
arms, before the command double quick. If, on the contrary, this command be not given, the
men will shift their pieces to the right shoulder at the command double quick. In either case, at
the command halt, the men will bring their pieces to the position of shoulder arms. This rule is
general.

                                                 LESSON III.

                                   THE MARCH BY THE FLANK.

         362. The rank being at a halt, and correctly aligned, the instructor will command:

                        1. Squad, right--FACE. 2. Forward. 3. MARCH.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  56

         363. At the last part of the first command, the rank will face to the right; the even
numbered men, after facing to the right, will step quickly to the right side of the odd numbered
men, the latter standing fast, so that when the movement is executed, the men will be formed into
files of two men abreast.

         364. At the third command, the squad will step off smartly with the left foot; the files
keeping aligned, and preserving their intervals.

         365. The march by the left flank will be executed by the same commands, substituting
the word left for right, and by inverse means; in this case, the even numbered men, after facing to
the left will stand fast, and the odd numbered will place themselves on their left.

         366. The instructor will place a well instructed soldier by the side of the recruit who is at
the head of the rank, to regulate the step, and to conduct him; and it will be enjoined on this
recruit to march always elbow to elbow with the soldier.

         367. The instructor will cause to be observed in the march, by the flank, the following
rules:

  That the step be executed according to the principles prescribed for the direct step;

         Because these principles, without which men placed elbow to elbow, in the same rank,
cannot preserve unity and harmony of movement, are of a more necessary observance in
marching in file.

That the head of the man who immediately precedes, covers the heads of all who are
                                                     in front;

         Because it is the most certain rule by which each man may maintain himself in the exact
line of the file.

         368. The instructor will place himself habitually five or six paces on the flank of the rank
marching in file, to watch over the execution of the principles prescribed above. He will also
place himself sometimes in its rear, halt, and suffer it to pass fifteen or twenty paces, the better to
see whether the men cover each other accurately.

         369. When he shall wish to halt the rank, marching by the flank, and to cause it to face to
the front, he will command:

                                    1. Squad. 2. HALT. 3. FRONT.

         370. At the second command, the rank will halt, and afterward no man will stir, although
he may have lost his distance. This prohibition is necessary, to habituate the men to a constant
preservation of their distances.

         371. At the third command, each man will front by facing to the left, if marching by the
right flank and by a face to the right, if marching by the left flank. The rear-rank men will at the
same time move quickly into their places, so as to form the squad again into one rank.

         372. When the men have become accustomed to marching by the flank, the instructor
will cause them to change direction by file; for this purpose, he will command:

                                  1. By file left (or right). 2. MARCH.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  57

         373. At the command march, the first file will change direction to the left (or right) in
describing a small are of a circle, and will then march straight-forward; the two men of this file,
in wheeling, will keep up the touch of the elbows, and the man on the side to which the wheel is
made, will shorten the first three or four steps. Each file will come successively to wheel on the
game spot where that which preceded it wheeled.

         374. The instructor will also cause the squad to face by the right or left flank in
marching, and for this purpose will command:

                         1. Squad by the right (or left) flank. 2. MARCH.

         375. At the second command, which will be given a little before either foot comes to the
ground, the recruits will turn the body, plants the foot that is raised in the new direction, and step
off with the other foot without altering the cadence of the step; the men will double or undouble
rapidly.

         376. If, in facing by the right or the left flank, the squad should face to the rear, the men
will come into one rank, agreeably to the principles indicated No. 371. It is to be remarked, that
it is the men who are in the rear who always move up to form into single rank, and in such
manner as never to invert the order of the numbers in the rank.

         377. If, when the squad has been faced to the rear, the instructor should cause it to face
by the left flank, it is the even numbers who will double by moving to the left of the odd
numbers; but if by the right flank, it is the odd numbers who will double to the right of the even
numbers.

         378. This lesson, like the preceding one, will be practised with pieces at a shoulder; but
the instructor may, to give relief by change, occasionally order support arms, and be will require
of the recruits marching in this position as much regularity as in the former.

         379. If the instructor should wish merely to face the squad by the flank, without
marching forward, he will command:

                          1. Squad by the right (or left) flank. 2. HALT.

         380. At the command halt, the recruit will face as prescribed, No. 375; he will then place
the foot that is raised by the side of the other.

              THE MARCH BY THE FLANK IN DOUBLE QUICK TIME.

         381. The principles of the march by the flank in double quick time, are the same as in
quick time. The instructor will give the commands prescribed No. 362, taking care always to
give the command double quick before that of march.

         382. He will pay the greatest attention to the cadence of the step.
         383. The instructor will cause the change of direction, and the march by the flank, to be
executed in double quick time, by the same commands, and according to the same principles, as
in quick time.
         384. The instructor will cause the pieces to be carried either on the right shoulder or at a
trail.
         385. The instructor will sometimes march the squad by the flank, without doubling the
files.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  58

         386. The principles of this march are the same as in two ranks, and it will always be
executed in quick time.

         387. The instructor will give, the commands prescribed, No. 362, but he will be careful to
caution the squad not to double files.

         388. The instructor will be watchful that the men do not bend their knees unequally,
which would cause them to tread on the heels of the men in front, and also to lose the cadence of
the step and their distances.

         389. The various movements in this lesson will be executed in single rank. In the
changes of direction, the leading man will change direction without altering the length or the
cadence of the step. The instructor will recall to the attention of the men, that in facing by the
right or left flank in marching, they will not double, but march in one rank.

                                                 LESSON IV.

                                                WHEELINGS.

                          GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF WHEELING.

         390. Wheelings are of two kinds: from halts, or on fixed pivots, and in march, or on
movable pivots.

         391. Wheeling on a fixed pivot takes place in passing a corps from the order in battle to
the order in column, or from the latter to the former.

         392. Wheels in marching take place in changes of direction in column, as often as this
movement is executed to the side opposite to the guide.

         393. In wheels from a halt, the pivot-man only turns in his place, without advancing or
receding.

         394. In the wheels in marching, the pivot takes steps of nine or eleven inches, according
as the squad is marching in quick or double quick time, so as to clear the wheeling-point, which
is necessary, in order that the subdivisions of a column may change direction without losing their
distances, as will be explained in the School of the Company.

         395. The man on the wheeling-flank will take the full step of twenty-eight inches, or
thirty-three inches, according to the gait.

                 WHEELING FROM A HALT, OR ON A FIXED PIVOT.

         396. The rank being at a halt, the instructor will place a well-instructed man on the
wheeling-flank to conduct it, and then command:

                                1. By squad, right wheel. 2. MARCH.

         397. At the second command, the rank will step off with the left foot, turning at the same
time the head a little to the left, the eyes fixed on the line of the eyes of the men to their left; the
pivot-man will merely mark time in gradually turning his body, in order to conform himself to
the movement of the marching flank; the man who conducts this flank will take steps of twenty-
eight inches, and from the first step advance a little the left shoulder, cast his eyes from time to
time along the rank, and feel constantly the elbow of the next man lightly, but never push him.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  59

         398. The other men will feel lightly the elbow of the next man toward the pivot, resist
pressure coming from the opposite side, and each will conform himself to the marching flank ­
shortening his step according to his approximation to the pivot.

         399. The instructor will make the rank wheel round the circle once or twice before
halting, in order to cause the principles to be the better understood, and he will be watchful that
the centre does not break.

         400. He will cause the wheel to the left to be executed according to the same principles.
         401. When the instructor shall wish to arrest the wheel, he will command:

                                             1. Squad. 2. HALT.

         402. At the second command, the rank will halt, and no man stir. The instructor, going to
the flank opposite the pivot, will place the two outer men of that flank in the direction he may
wish to give to the rank, without however displacing the pivot, who will conform the line of his
shoulders to this direction. The instructor will take care to have between these two men, and the
pivot, only the space necessary to contain the other men. He will then command:

                                          Left (or right)--DRESS.

         403. At this, the rank will place itself on the alignment of the two men established as the
basis, in conformity with the principles prescribed.

         404. The instructor will next command: FRONT, which will be executed as prescribed
No. 323.

      REMARKS ON THE PRINCIPLES OF THE WHEEL FROM A HALT.

         405. Turn a little the head toward the marching flank, and fix the eyes on the
line of the eyes of the men who are on that side;

         Because, otherwise, it would be impossible for each man to regulate the length of his step
so as to conform his own movement to that of the marching flank.

                   Touch lightly the elbow of the next man toward the pivot;

         In order that the files may not open out in the wheel.

               Resist pressure that comes from the side of the marching flank;

         Because, if this principle be neglected, the pivot, which ought to be a fixed point, in
wheels from a halt, might be pushed out of its place by pressure.

              WHEELING IN MARCHING, OR ON A MOVABLE PIVOT.

         406. When the recruits have been brought to execute well the wheel from a halt, they will
be taught to wheel in marching.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  60

         407. To this end, the rank being in march, when the instructor shall wish to cause it to
change direction to the reverse flank (to the side opposite to the guide or pivot flank) he will
command:

                                  1. Right (or left) wheel. 2. MARCH.

         408. The first command will be given when the rank is yet four paces from the wheeling
point.

         409. At the second command, the wheel will be executed in the same manner as from a
halt, except that the touch of the elbow will remain toward the marching flank (or side of the
guide) instead of the side of the actual pivot; that the pivot man, instead of merely turning in his
place, will conform himself to the movement of the marching flank, feel lightly the elbow of the
next man, take steps of full nine inches, and thus gain ground forward in describing a small curve
so as to clear the point of the wheel. The middle of the rank will bend slightly to the rear. As
soon as the movement shall commence, the man who conducts the marching flank will cast his
eyes on the ground over which he will have to pass.

         410. The wheel being ended, the instructor will command:

                                         1. Forward. 2. MARCH.

         411. The first command will be pronounced when four paces are yet required to complete
the change of direction.

         412. At the command march, which will be given at the instant of completing the wheel,
the man who conducts the marching flank will direct himself straight-forward; the pivot man and
all the rank will retake the step of twenty-eight inches, and bring the head direct to the front.

  TURNING OR CHANGE OF DIRECTION TO THE SIDE OF THE GUIDE.

         413. The change of direction to the side of the guide, in marching, will be executed as
follows: The instructor will command:

                                   1. Left (or right) turn. 2. MARCH.

         414. The first command will be given when the rank is yet four paces from the turning
point.

         415. At the command march, to be pronounced at the instant the rank ought to turn, the
guide will face to the left (or right) in marching, and move forward in the new direction without
slackening or quickening the cadence, and without shortening or lengthening the step. The
whole rank will promptly conform itself to the new direction: to effect which, each man will
advance the shoulder opposite to the guide, take the double quick step, to carry himself in the
new direction, turn the head and eyes to the side of the guide, and retake the touch of the elbow
on that side, in placing himself on the alignment of the guide, from whom he will take the step,
and then resume the direct position of the head. Each man will thus arrive successively on the
alignment.
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  61

WHEELING AND CHANGING DIRECTION TO THE SIDE OF THE GUIDES
                                      IN DOUBLE QUICK TIME.

         416. When the recruits comprehend and execute well, in quick time, the wheels at a halt
and in marching, and the change of direction to the side of the guide, the instructor will cause the
same movements to be repeated in double quick time.

         417. These various movements will be executed by the same commands and according to
the same principles as in quick time, except that, the command double quick will precede that of
march. In wheeling while marching, the pivot man will take steps of eleven inches, and in the
changes of direction to the side of the guide, the men on the side opposite the guide must
increase the gait in order to bring themselves into line.

         418. The instructor, in order not to fatigue the recruits, and not to divide their attention
will cause them to execute the several movements of which this lesson is composed, first without
arms, and next, after the mechanism be well comprehended, with arms.

                                                  LESSON V.

           LONG MARCHES IN DOUBLE QUICK TIME AND THE RUN.

         419. The instructor will cause to be resumed the exercises in double quick time and the
run, with arms and knapsacks.

         420. He will cause long marches to be executed in double quick time, both by the front
and by the flank, and by constant practice will lead the men to pass over a distance of five miles
in sixty minutes. The pieces will be carried on either shoulder, and sometimes at a trail.

         421. He will also exercise them in long marches at a run, the pieces carried at will; the
men will be instructed to keep as united as possible, without however exacting much regularity,
which is impracticable.

         422. The run, in actual service, will only be resorted to when it may be highly important
to reach a given point with great promptitude.

                                            TO STACK ARMS.

         The men being at order arms with bayonets unfixed, the instructor will command:

                                                Stack--ARMS.

         423. At this command, the front-rank man of every even-numbered file will pass his
piece before him, seizing it with the left hand near the upper band; will place the butt a little in
advance of his left toe, the barrel turned toward the body, and draw the rammer slightly from its
place; the front-rank man of every odd numbered file will also draw the rammer slightly, and
pass his piece to the man next on his left, who will seize it with the right hand near the upper
band, and place the butt a little in advance of the right toe of the man next on his right, the barrel
turned to the front; he will then cross the rammers of the two pieces, the rammer of the piece of
the odd numbered man being inside; the rear-rank man of every even file will also draw his
rammer, lean his piece forward, the lock-plate downwards, advance the right foot about six
inches, and insert the rammer between the rammer and barrel of the piece of his front-rank man;
SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.  62

with his left hand he will place the butt of his piece on the ground, thirty-two inches in rear of,
and perpendicular to, the front-rank, bringing back his right foot by the side of the left; the front-
rank man of every even file will at the same time lean the stack to the rear, quit it with his right
hand, and force all the rammers down. The stack being thus formed, the rear-rank man of every
odd file will pass his piece into his left hand, the barrel to the front, and inclining it forward, will
rest it on the stack.

         424. If the rifle musket be used and it is required to stack arms with the bayonets fixed,
the following will be the method.

         425. At the command stack arms, the front-rank man of every even-numbered file will
pass his piece before him, seizing it with the left hand above the middle band, and place the butt
behind and near the right foot of the man next on the left, the barrel turned to the front. At the
same time the front-rank man of every odd-numbered file will pass his piece before him, seizing
it with the left hand below the middle band, and hand it to the man next on the left; the latter will
receive it with the right hand two inches above the middle band, throw the butt about thirty-two
inches to the front, opposite to his right shoulder, inclining the muzzle toward him, and lock the
shanks of the two bayonets: the lock of this second piece toward the right, and its shank above
that of the first piece. The rear-rank man of every even file will project his bayonet forward, and
introduce it (using both hands) between and under the shanks of the two other bayonets. He will
then abandon the piece to his file leader, who will receive it with the right hand under the middle
band, bring the butt to the front, holding up his own piece and the stack with the left hand, and
place the butt of this third piece between the feet of the man next on the right, the S plate to the
rear. The stack thus formed, the rear-rank man of every odd file will pass his piece into his left
hand, the barrel turned to the front and sloping the bayonet forward, rest it on the stack.

         426. The men of both ranks having taken the position of the soldier without arms, the
instructor will command:

                                       1. Break ranks. 2. MARCH.

                                           TO RESUME ARMS.

         427. Both ranks being re-formed in rear of their stacks, the instructor will command:

                                                 Take--ARMS.

         428. At this command, the rear-rank man of every odd-numbered file will withdraw his
piece from the stack; the front-rank man of every even file will seize his own piece with the left
hand and that of the man on his right with his right hand, both above the lower band; the rear-
rank man of the even file will seize his piece with the right hand below the lower band (if the
rifle musket be used the piece will be seized at the middle band); these two men will raise up the
stack to loosen the rammers, or shanks of the bayonets. The front-rank man of every odd file
will facilitate the disengagement of the rammers, if necessary, by drawing them out slightly with
the left hand, and will receive his piece from the hand of the man next on his left; the four men
will retake the position of the soldier at order arms.

                             END OF THE SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  63

                               TITLE III.

                                               _______________

                           SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.

             General Rules and Division of the School of the Company.

         1. INSTRUCTION by company will always precede that by battalion, and the object
being to prepare the soldiers for the higher school, the exercises of detail by company will be
strictly adhered to, as well in respect to principles, as the order of progression herein prescribed.

         2. There will be attached to a company undergoing elementary instruction, a captain, a
covering sergeant, and a certain number of file closers, the whole posted in the manner indicated,
Title First, and, according to the same Title, the officer charged with the exercise of such
company will herein be denominated the instructor.

         3. The School of the Company will be divided into six lessons, and each lesson will
comprehend five articles as follows:

                                                  LESSON I.

         1. To open ranks.
         2. Alignments in open ranks.
         3. Manual of arms.
         4. To close ranks.
         5. Alignments, and manual of arms in closed ranks.

                                                  LESSON II.

         1. To load in four times and at will.
         2. To fire by company.
         3. To fire by file.
         4. To fire by rank.
         5. To fire by the rear-rank.

                                                 LESSON III.

         1. To march in line of battle.
         2. To halt the company marching in line of battle, and to align it.
         3. Oblique march in line of battle.
         4. To mark time, to march in double quick time, and the back step.
         5. To march in retreat in line of battle.

                                                 LESSON IV.

         1. To march by the flank.
         2. To change direction by file.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  64

         3. To halt the company marching by the flank and to face it to the front.
         4. The company being in march by the flank, to form it on the right or left by file into
line of battle.
         5. The company marching by the flank, to form it by company or platoon into line, and
cause it to face to the right and left in marching.

                                                  LESSON V.

         1. To break into column by platoon either at a halt, or while marching.
         2. To march in column.
         3. To change direction.
         4. To halt the column.
         5. Being in column by platoon, to form to the right or left into line of battle, either at a
halt or marching.

                                                 LESSON VI.

         1. To break into platoons, and to re-form the company.
         2. To break files to the rear, and to cause them to re-enter into line.
         3. To march in column in route, and to execute the movements incident thereto.
         4. Countermarch.
         5. Being in column by platoon, to form on the right or left into line of battle.

         4. The company will always be formed in two ranks. The men will take their places in
ranks as prescribed in No. 15, Title I, and without any preliminary formation. The instructor will
then cause the files to be numbered, and for this purpose will command:

                                      In each rank--Count TWOS.

         5. At this command, the men count in each rank, from right to left, pronouncing in a loud
and distinct voice, in the same tone, without hurry and without turning the head, one, two,
according to the place which each one occupies. He will also cause the company to be divided
into platoons and sections, taking care that the first platoon is always composed of an even
number of files.

         6. The instructor will be as clear and concise as possible in his explanations; he will
cause faults of detail to be rectified by the captain, to whom he will indicate them, if the captain
should not himself have observed them; and the instructor will not otherwise interfere, unless the
captain should not well comprehend, or should badly execute his intentions.

         7. Composure, or presence of mind, in him who commands, and in those who obey,
being the first means of order in a body of troops, the instructor will labor to habituate the
company to this essential quality, and will himself give the example.

                                              LESSON FIRST.

                                                  ARTICLE I.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  65

                                              To open Ranks.

         8. The company being at ordered arms, the ranks and file closers well aligned, when the
instructor shall wish to cause the ranks to be opened, he will direct the left guide to place himself
on the left of the front-rank, which being executed, he will command:

       1. Attention. 2. Company. 3. Shoulder--ARMS. 4. To the rear open order.

         9. At the fourth command, the covering sergeant and the left guide will step off smartly
to the rear, four paces from the front-rank, in order to mark the alignment of the rear-rank. They
will judge this distance by the eye, without counting the steps.

         10. The instructor will place himself at the same, time on the right flank, in order to
observe if these two non-commissioned officers are on a line parallel to the front-rank, and, if
necessary, to correct their positions, which being executed, he will command:

                                                  5. MARCH.

         11. At this command, the front-rank will stand fast.
         12. The rear-rank will step to the rear, without counting the steps, and will place
themselves on the alignment marked for this rank, conforming to what is prescribed in the S. S.,
No. 330.
         13. The covering sergeant will align the rear-rank on the left guide placed to mark the left
of this rank.
         14. The file closers will march to the rear at the same time with the rear-rank, and will
place themselves two paces from this rank when it is aligned.
         15. The instructor seeing the rear-rank aligned, will command:

                                                   6. FRONT.

         16. At this command, the sergeant on the left of the rear-rank will return to his place as a
file closer.

         17. The rear-rank being aligned, the instructor will direct the captain and the covering
sergeant to observe the men in their respective ranks, and to correct, if necessary, the positions of
persons and pieces.

                                                 ARTICLE II.

                                     Alignments in Open Ranks.

         18. The ranks being open, the instructor will, in the first exercises, align the ranks, man
by man, the better to inculcate the principles.

         19. To effect this, he will cause two or four men on the right or left of each rank to march
two or three paces forward, and, after having aligned them, command:

                                     By file, right (or left)--DRESS.
                 SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.                  66

         20. At this, the men of each rank will move up successively on the alignment, each man
being preceded by his neighbor in the same rank, toward the basis, by two paces, and, having
correctly aligned himself, will cast his eyes to the front.

         21. Successive alignments having habituated the soldiers to dress correctly, the instructor
will cause the ranks to align themselves at once, forward and backward, sometimes in a direction
parallel, and sometimes in one oblique, to the original direction, giving, in each case, two or four
men to serve as a basis of alignment to each rank. To effect which, he will command:

                                1. Right (or left)--DRESS. 2. FRONT.

                 OR

1. Right (or left) backward--DRESS. 2. FRONT.

         22. In oblique alignments, in opened ranks, the men of the rear-rank will not seek to
cover their file leaders, as the sole object of the exercise is to teach them to align themselves
correctly in their respective ranks, in the different directions.

         23. In the several alignments, the captain will superintend the front-rank, and the
covering sergeant the rear-rank. For this purpose, they will place themselves on the side by
which the ranks are dressed.

         24. In oblique alignments, the men will conform the line of their shoulders to the new
direction of their rank, and will place themselves on the alignment as has been prescribed in the
S. S., No. 326 or No. 330, according as the new direction shall be in front or rear of the original
one.

         25. At the end of each alignment, the captain and the covering sergeant will pass along
the front of the ranks to correct the positions of persons and arms.

                                                ARTICLE III.

                 Manual of Arms.

         26. The ranks being open, the instructor will place himself in a position to see the ranks,
and will command the manual of arms in the following order:

Present arms.                            Shoulder arms.
Order arms.
Ground arms.                             Shoulder arms.
Raise arms.                              Shoulder arms.
Support arms.                            Shoulder arms.
                                         Shoulder arms.
Fix bayonet.                             Shoulder arms.
Charge bayonet.                          Shoulder arms.
Trail arms.                              Shoulder arms.
Unfix bayonet.
Secure arms.

                 Load in nine times.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  67

         27. The instructor will take care that the position of the body, of the feet, and of the
piece, be always exact, and that the times be briskly executed and close to the person.

                                                ARTICLE IV.

                                              To Close Ranks.

         28. The manual of arms being ended, the instructor will command:

                                        1. Close order. 2. MARCH.

         29. At the command march, the rear-rank will close up in quick time, each man directing
himself on his file leader.

                                                 ARTICLE V.

                   Alignments, and Manual of Arms in Closed Ranks.

         30. The ranks being closed, the instructor will cause to be executed parallel and oblique
alignments by the right and left, forward and backward, observing to place always two or four
files to serve as a basis of alignment. He will give the commands prescribed, No. 21.

         31. In alignments in closed ranks, the captain will superintend the front-rank, and the
covering sergeant the rear-rank. They will habituate themselves to judge the alignment by the
lines of the eyes and shoulders, in casting a glance of the eye along the front and rear of the
ranks.

         32. The moment the captain perceives the greater number of the front-rank aligned, he
will command FRONT, and rectify afterward, if necessary, the alignment of the other men by
the means prescribed in the S. S., No. 329. The rear-rank will conform to the alignment of the
front-rank, superintended by the covering sergeant.

         33. The ranks being steady, the instructor will place himself on the flank to verify their
alignment. He will also see that each rear-rank man covers accurately his file leader.

         34. In oblique alignments, the instructor will observe what is prescribed, No. 24.
         35. In all alignments, the file closers will preserve the distance of two paces from the
rear-rank.
         36. The alignments being ended, the instructor will cause to be executed the ma nual of
arms.
         37. The instructor, wishing to rest the men, without deranging the alignment, will first
cause arms to be supported, or ordered, and then command:

                                               In place--REST.

         38. At this command, the men will no longer be constrained to preserve silence or
steadiness of position; but they will always keep one or other heel on the alignment.

         39. If, on the contrary, the instructor should wish to rest the men without constraining
them to preserve the alignment, he will command:
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  68

                                                      REST.

         40. At which command, the men will not be required to preserve immobility, or to
remain in their places.

         41. The instructor may, also, when he shall judge proper, cause arms to be stacked, which
will be executed as prescribed in the S. S.

                                            LESSON SECOND.

         42. The instructor wishing to pass the second lesson will cause the company to take arms,
if stacks have been formed, and command:

                         1. Attention. 2. Company. 3. Shoulder--ARMS.

         43. The instructor will then cause loadings and firings, to be executed in the following
order:

                                                  ARTICLE I.

                               To Load in Four Times and at Will.

         44. Loading in four times will be commanded and executed as prescribed in the S. S., No.
260, and following. The instructor will cause this exercise to be often repeated, in succession,
before passing to loading at will.

         45. Loading at will will be commanded and executed as prescribed in the S. S., No. 265.
In priming when loading in four times, and also, at will, the captain and covering sergeant will
half face to the right with the men, and face to the front when the man next to them, respectively,
brings his piece to the shoulder.

         46. The instructor will labor to the utmost to cause the men, in the different loadings, to
execute what has been prescribed in the S. S., Nos. 266 and 267.

         47. Loading at will, being that of battle, and consequently the one with which it is most
important to render the men familiar, it will claim preference in the exercises the moment the
men are well established in the principles. To these they will be brought by degrees, so that
every man may be able to load with cartridges, and to fire at least three rounds in a minute with
ease and regularity.

                                                 ARTICLE II.

                                          To Fire by Company.

         48. The instructor, wishing to cause the fire by company to be executed, will command:

                              1. Fire by company. 2. Commence firing.

         49. At the first command, the captain will promptly place himself opposite the centre of
his company, and four paces in rear of the line of file closers: the covering sergeant will retire to
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  69

that line, and place himself opposite to his interval. This rule is general, for both the captain and
covering sergeant, in all the different firings.

         50. At the second command, the captain will add: 1. Company. 2. READY. 3. AIM.
4. FIRE. 5. LOAD.

         51. At the command load, the men will load their pieces, and then take the position of
ready, as prescribed in the School of the Soldier.

         52. The captain will immediately recommence the firing, by the commands:

                              1. Company. 2. AIM. 3. FIRE. 4. LOAD.

         53. The firing will be thus continued until the signal to cease firing is sounded.
         54. The captain will sometimes cause aim to be taken to the right and left, simply
observing to pronounce right (or left) oblique, before the command aim.

                                                ARTICLE III.

                                              The Fire by File.

         55. The instructor wishing to cause the fire by file to be executed, will command:

                1. Fire by file. 2. Company. 3. READY. 4. Commence firing.

         56. The third and fourth commands will be executed as prescribed in the S. S., No. 284
and following.

         57. The fire will be commenced by the right file of the company; the next file will take
aim at the instant the first brings down pieces to reload, and so on to the left; but this progression
will only be observed in the first discharge, after which each man will reload and fire without
regulating himself by others, conforming himself to what is prescribed in the S. S., No. 289.

                                                ARTICLE IV.

                                             The Fire by Rank.

         58. The instructor wishing the fire by rank to be executed, will command:

 1. Fire by rank. 2. Company. 3. READY. 4. Rear rank--AIM. 5. FIRE. 6. LOAD.

         59. The fifth and sixth commands will be executed as is prescribed in the S. S., No. 294
and following.

         60. When the instructor sees one or two pieces in the rear-rank at a ready, he will
command:

                             1. Front rank. 2. Aim. 3. FIRE. 4. LOAD.

         61. The firing will be continued thus by alternate ranks, until the signal is given to cease
firing.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  70

         62. The instructor will sometimes cause aim to be taken to the right and left, conforming
to what is prescribed No. 54.

         63. The instructor will cause the firing to cease, whether by company, by file, or by rank,
by sounding the signal to cease firing, and at the instant this sound commences, the men will
cease to fire, conforming to what is prescribed in the S. S., No. 291.

         64. The signal to cease firing will be always followed by a bugle note or tap; at which
sound, the captain and covering sergeant will promptly resume their places in line, and will
rectify, if necessary, the alignment of the ranks.

         65. In this school, except when powder is used, the signal to cease firing will be indicated
by the command, cease firing, which will be pronounced by the instructor when he wishes the
semblance of firing to cease.

         66. The command posts will be likewise substituted, under similar circumstances, for the
bugle note or tap employed as the signal for the return of the captain and covering sergeant to
their places in line, which command will be given when the instructor sees the men have brought
their pieces to a shoulder.

         67. The fire by file being that which is most frequently used against an enemy, it is
highly important that it be rendered perfectly familiar to the troops. The instructor will,
therefore, give it almost exclusive preference, and labor to cause the men to aim with care, and
always, if possible, at some particular object. As it is of the utmost importance that the men
should aim with precision in battle, this principle will be rigidly enforced in the exercises for
purposes of instruction.

                                                 ARTICLE V.

                                      To Fire by the Rear-Rank.

         68. The instructor will cause the several fires to be executed to the rear, that is, by the
rear-rank. To effect this, he will command:

                   1. Face by the rear rank. 2. Company. 3. About--FACE.

         69. At the first command, the captain will step out, and place himself sixteen inches
from, and facing the right file of his company; the covering sergeant, and file closers, will pass
quickly through the captain's interval, and place them selves faced to the rear, the covering
sergeant a pace behind the captain, and the file closers two paces from the front-rank opposite to
their places in line, each passing behind the covering sergeant.

         70. At the third command, which will be given at the instant the last file closer shall have
passed through the interval, the company will face about; the captain will place himself in his
interval in the rear-rank, now become the front, and the covering sergeant will cover him in the
front-rank, now become the rear.

         71. The company having faced by the rear-rank, the instructor will cause it to execute the
fire by company, both direct and oblique, the fire by file, and the fire by rank, by the commands
and means prescribed in the three preceding articles; the captain, covering sergeant, and the men,
will conform themselves, in like manner, to what is therein prescribed.

         72. The fire by file will commence on the left of the company, now become the right. In
the fire by rank, the firing will commence with the front-rank, now become the rear.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  71

         73. To resume the proper front, the instructor will command:

                   1. Face by the front rank. 2. Company. 3. About--FACE.

         74. At the first command, the captain, covering sergeant and file-closers will conform to
what is prescribed Nos. 69 and 70.

         75. At the third command, the company having faced about, the captain and covering
sergeant will resume their places in line.

         76. In this lesson, the instructor will impress on the men the importance of aiming always
at some particular object, and of holding the pieces as prescribed in the S. S., No. 185.

         77. The instructor will recommend to the captain to make a short pause between the
commands aim and fire, to give the men time to aim with accuracy.

         78. The instructor will place himself in position to see the two ranks, in order to detect
faults; he will charge the captain and file closers to be equally watchful, and to report to him
when the ranks are at rest. He will remand, for individual instruction, the men who may be
observed to load badly.

         79. The instructor will recommend to the soldiers, in the firings, the highest degree of
composure or presence of mind; he will neglect nothing that may contribute to this end.

         80. He will give to the men, as a general principle, to maintain, in the direct fire, the left
heel in its place, in order that the alignment of the ranks and files may not be deranged; and he
will verify, by examination, after each exercise in firing, the observance of this principle.

         81. The instructor will observe, in addition to these remarks, all those which follow.
         82. When the firing is executed with cartridges, it is particularly recommended that the
men observe, in uncocking, whether smoke escapes from the tube, which is a certain indication
that the piece has been discharged; but if, on the contrary, no smoke escapes, the soldier, in such
case, instead of reloading, will pick and prime again. If, believing the load to be discharged, the
soldier should put a second cartridge in his piece, he ought, at least, to perceive it in ramming, by
the height of the load; and he would be very culpable should he put in a third. The instructor will
always cause arms to be inspected after firing with cartridges, in order to observe if the fault has
been committed, of putting three cartridges without a discharge, in the same piece, in which case
the ball screw will be applied.
         83. It sometimes happens, when a cap has missed fire, that the tube is found stopped up
with a hard, white, and compact powder; in this case, picking will be dispensed with, and a new
cap substituted for the old one.

                                             LESSON THIRD.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

                                    To Advance in Line of Battle.

         84. The company being in line of battle and correctly aligned, when the instructor shall
wish to exercise it in marching by the front, he will assure himself that the shoulders of the
captain and covering sergeant are perfectly in the direction of their respective ranks, and that the
sergeant accurately covers the captain; the instructor will then place himself twenty-five or thirty
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  72

paces in front of them, face to the rear, and place himself exactly on the prolongation of the line
passing between their heels.

         85. The instructor, being aligned on the directing file, will command:

                                           1. Company, forward.

         86. At this, a sergeant, previously designated, will move six paces in advance of the
captain: the instructor, from the position prescribed, will correctly align this sergeant on the
prolongation of the directing file.

         87. This advanced sergeant, who is to be charged with the direction, will, the moment his
position is assured, take two points on the ground in the straight line, which would pass between
his own and the heels of the instructor.

         88. These dispositions being made, the instructor will step aside, and command:

                                                  2. MARCH.

         89. At this, the company will step off with life. The directing sergeant will observe, with
the greatest precision, the length and cadence of the step, marching on the two points he has
chosen; he will take, in succession, and always a little before arriving at the point nearest to him,
new points in advance, exactly in the same line with the first two, and at the distance of some
fifteen or twenty paces from each other. The captain will march steadily in the trace of the
directing sergeant, keeping always six paces from him; the men will each maintain the head
direct to the front, feel lightly the elbow of his neighbor on the side of direction, and conform
himself to the principles prescribed in the S. S., for the march by the front.

         90. The man next to the captain will take special care not to pass him; to this end, he will
keep the line of his shoulders a little in the rear, but in the same direction with those of the
captain.

         91. The file closers will march at the habitual distance of two paces behind the rear-rank.
         92. If the men lose the step, the instructor will command:

                                                To the--STEP.

         93. At this command the men will glance toward the directing sergeant, retake the step
from him, and again direct their eyes to the front.

         94. The instructor will cause the captain and covering sergeant to be posted sometimes
on the right, and sometimes on the left of the company.

         95. The directing sergeant, in advance, having the greatest influence on the march of the
company, he will be selected for the precision of his step, his habit of maintaining his shoulders
in a square with a given line of direction, and of prolonging that line without variation.

         96. If this sergeant should fail to observe these principles, undulations in the front of the
company must necessarily follow; the men will be unable to contract the habit of taking steps
equal in length and swiftness, and of maintaining their shoulders in a square with the line of
direction ­ the only means of attaining perfection in the march in line.

         97. The instructor, with a view the better to establish the men in the length and cadence
of the step, and in the principles of the march in line, will cause the company to advance three or
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  73

four hundred paces, at once, without halting, if the ground will permit. In the first exercises, he
will march the company with open ranks, the better to observe the two ranks.

         98. The instructor will see, with care, that all the principles of the march in line are
strictly observed; he will generally be on the directing flank, in a position to observe the two
ranks, and the faults they may commit; he will sometimes halt behind the directing file during
some thirty successive steps, in order to judge whether the directing sergeant, or the directing
file, deviate from the perpendicular.

                                                 ARTICLE II.

        To Halt the Company, Marching in Line of Battle, and to Align it.

         99. The instructor, wishing to halt the company, will command:

                                           1. Company. 2. HALT.

         100. At the second command, the company will halt; the directing sergeant will remain in
advance, unless ordered to return to the line of file closers. The company being at a halt, the
instructor may advance the first three or four files on the side of direction, and align the company
on that basis, or he may confine himself to causing the alignment to be rectified. In this last case,
he will command: Captain, rectify the alignment. The captain will direct the covering
sergeant to attend to the rear-rank, when each, glancing his eyes along his rank, will promptly
rectify it, conforming to what is prescribed in the S. S., No. 329.

                                                ARTICLE III.

                                 Oblique March in Line of Battle.

         101. The company being in the direct march, when the instructor shall wish to cause it to
march obliquely, he will command:

                                 1. Right (or left) oblique. 2. MARCH.

         102. At the command march, the company will take the oblique step. The men will
accurately observe the principles prescribed in the S. S., No. 340. The rear-rank men will
preserve their distances, and march in rear of the man next on the right (or left) of their habitual
file leaders.

         103. When the instructor wishes the direct march to be resumed, he will command:

                                         1. Forward. 2. MARCH.

         104. At the command march, the company will resume the direct march. The instructor
will move briskly twenty paces in front of the captain, and facing the company, will place
himself exactly in the prolongation of the captain and covering sergeant; and then, by a sign, will
move the directing sergeant on the same line, if he be not already on it; the latter will
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  74

immediately take two points on the ground between himself and the instructor, and as he
advances, will take new points of direction, as is explained No. 89.

         105. In the oblique march, the men not having the touch of elbows, the guide will always
be on the side toward which the oblique is made, without any indication to that effect being
given; and when the direct march is resumed, the guide will be, equally without indication, on
the side where it was previous to the oblique.

         106. The instructor will, at first, cause the oblique to be made toward the side of the
guide. He will also direct the captain to have an eye on the directing sergeant, in order to keep
on the same perpendicular line to the front with him, while following a parallel direction.

         107. During the continuance of the march, the instructor will be watchful that the men
follow parallel directions, in conforming to the principles prescribed in the school of the soldier,
for preserving the general alignment; whenever the men lose the alignment, he will be careful
that they regain it by lengthening or shortening the step, without altering the cadence, or
changing the direction.

         108. The instructor will place himself in front of the company and face to it, in order to
regulate the march of the directing sergeant, or the man who is on the flank toward which the
oblique is made, and to see that the principles of the march are properly observed, and that the
files do not crowd.

                                                ARTICLE IV.

      To Mark Time, to March in Double Quick Time, and the Back Step.

         109. The company being in the direct march and in quick time, the instructor, to cause it
to mark time, will command:

                                        1. Mark time. 2. MARCH.

         110. To resume the march, be will command:

                                         1. Forward. 2. MARCH.

         111. To cause the march in double quick time, the instructor will command:

                                      1. Double quick. 2. MARCH.

         112. The command march will be pronounced at the instant either foot is coming to the
ground.

         113. To resume quick time, the instructor will command:

                                        1. Quick time. 2. MARCH.

         114. The command march will be pronounced at the instant either foot is coming to the
ground.

         115. The company being at a halt, the instructor may cause it to march in the back step;
to this effect, he will command:
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  75

                                  1. Company backward. 2. MARCH.

         116. The back step will be executed according to the principles prescribed in the S. S.,
No. 256, but the use of it being rare, the instructor will not cause more than fifteen or twenty
steps to be taken in succession, and to that extent but seldom.

         117. The instructor ought not to exercise the company in marching in double quick time,
till the men are well established in the length and swiftness of the pace in quick-time; he will
then endeavor to render the march of one hundred and sixty-five steps in the minute equally easy
and familiar, and also cause them to observe the same erectness of body and composure of mind,
as if marching in quick time.

         118. When marching in double quick time, if a subdivision (in a column) has to change
direction by turning, or has to form into line, the men will quicken the pace to one hundred and
eighty steps in a minute. The same swiftness of step will be observed under all circumstances
where great rapidity of movement is required. But, as ranks of men cannot march any length of
time at so swift a rate, without breaking or confusion, this acceleration will not be considered a
prescribed exercise, and accordingly companies or battalions will only be habitually exercised in
the double quick time of one hundred and sixty-five steps in the minute.

                                                 ARTICLE V.

                                           To march in retreat.

         119. The company being halted and correctly aligned, when the instructor shall wish to
cause it to march in retreat, he will command:

                                     1. Company. 2. About--FACE.

         120. The company having faced to the rear, the instructor will place himself in front of
the directing file, conforming to what is prescribed No. 84.

         121. The instructor, being correctly established on the prolongation of the directing file,
will command:

                                           3. Company, forward.

         122. At this, the directing sergeant will conform himself to what is prescribed Nos. 86
and 87, with this difference ­ he will place himself six paces in front of the line of file closers,
now leading.

         123. The covering sergeant will step into the line of file closers, opposite to his interval,
and the captain will place himself in the rear-rank, now become the front.

         124. This disposition being promptly made, the instructor will command:

                                                  4. MARCH.

         125. At this, the directing sergeant, the captain, and the men, will conform themselves to
what is prescribed No. 89, and following.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  76

         126. The instructor will cause to be executed, marching in retreat, all that is prescribed
for marching in advance; the commands and the means of execution will be the same. When
marching in open order, the captain will remain in the front, and the covering sergeant in the
rear-rank.

         127. The instructor having halted the company, will, when he may wish, cause it to face
to the front, by the commands prescribed No. 119. The captain, the covering sergeant, and the
directing sergeant, will resume their habitual places in line, the mome nt they shall have faced
about.

         128. The company being in march by the front-rank, if the instructor should wish it to
march in retreat, he will cause the right about to be executed while marching, and to this effect
will command:

                              1. Company. 2. Right about. 3. MARCH.

         129. At the third command, the company will promptly face about, and recomme nce the
march by the rear-rank.

         130. The directing sergeant will face about with the company, and will move rapidly six
paces in front of the file closers, and upon the prolongation of the guide. The instructor will
place him in the proper direction by the means prescribed No. 104. The captain, the covering
sergeant, and the men, will conform to the principles prescribed for the march in retreat.

         131. When the instructor wishes the company to march by the front-rank, be will give the
same commands, and will regulate the direction of the march by the same means.

         132. The company being in march either by the front or rear-rank, and if the instructor
should wish to face it about without continuing the march, he will command:

                               1. Company. 2. Right about. 3. HALT.

         133. At the command halt, the company will face about, and the men will conform to
what is prescribed in the S. S., No. 355.

         134. The instructor will cause to be executed in double quick time, all the movements
prescribed in the 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th lessons of this school, with the exception of the march
backwards, which will be executed only in quick time. He will give the same commands,
observing to add double quick before the command march.

         135. When the pieces are carried on the right shoulder, in quick time, the distance
between the ranks will be sixteen inches. Whenever, therefore, the instructor brings the
company from a shoulder to this position, the rear-rank must shorten a little the first steps in
order to gain the prescribed distance, and will lengthen the steps, on the contrary, in order to
close up when the pieces are again brought to a shoulder. In marching in double quick time, the
distance between the ranks will be twenty-six inches, and the pieces will be carried habitually on
the right shoulder.

         136. Whenever a company is halted, the men will bring their pieces at once to a shoulder
at the command halt. The rear-rank will close to its proper distance. These rules are general.

                                            LESSON FOURTH.

                                                  ARTICLE I.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  77
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  78

                                         To march by the flank.

         137. The company being in line of battle, and at a halt, when the instructor shall wish to
cause it to march by the right flank, he will command:

                      1. Company, right--FACE. 2. Forward. 3. MARCH.

         138. At the first command, the company will face to the right, the covering sergeant will
place himself at the head of the front-rank, the captain having stepped out for the purpose, so far
as to find himself by the side of the sergeant, and on his left; the front-rank will double, as is
prescribed in the S. S., No. 363; the rear-rank will, at the same time, side-step to the right one
pace, and double in the same manner; so that when the movement is completed, the files will be
formed of four men aligned, and elbow to elbow. The intervals will be preserved.

         139. The file closers will also move by side step to the right, so that when the ranks are
formed, they will be two paces from the rearmost rank.

         140. At the command march, the company will move off briskly in quick time; the
covering sergeant at the head of the front-rank, and the captain on his left will march straight-
forward. The men of each file will march abreast of their respective front-rank men, heads direct
to the front; the file closers will march opposite their places in line of battle.

         141. The instructor will cause the principles of the march by the flank to be observed, in
placing himself, pending the march, as prescribed in the S. S., No. 368.

         142. The instructor will cause the march by the left flank to be executed by the same
commands, substituting left for right; the ranks will double, as has been prescribed in the S. S.,
No. 365; the rear-rank will side-step to the left one pace before doubling.

         143. At the instant the company faces to the left, the left guide will place himself at the
head of the front-rank; the captain will pass rapidly to the left, and place himself by the right side
of this guide; the covering sergeant will replace the captain in the front-rank, the moment the
latter quits it to go to the left.

                                                 ARTICLE II.

                                     To change direction by file.

         144. The company being faced by the flank, and either in march, or at a halt, when the
instructor shall wish to cause it to wheel by file, he will command:

                                 1. By file, left (or right). 2. MARCH.

         145. At the command march, the first file will wheel; if to the side of the front-rank man,
the latter will take care not to turn at once, but to describe a short are of a circle, shortening a
little the first five or six steps in order to give time to the fourth man of this file to conform
himself to the movement. If the wheel be to the side of the rear-rank, the front-rank man will
wheel in the step of twenty-eight inches, and the fourth man will conform himself to the
movement by describing a short are of a circle, as has been explained. Each file will come to
wheel on the same ground where that which preceded it wheeled.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  79

         146. The instructor will see that the wheel be executed according to these principles, in
order that the distance between the files may always be preserved, and that there be no check or
hindrance at the wheeling point.

                                                ARTICLE III.

   To halt the company marching by the flank, and to face it to the front.

         147. To effect these objectives, the instructor will command:

                                  1. Company. 2. HALT. 3. FRONT.

         148. The second and third commands will be executed as prescribed in the S. S., Nos.
370 and 371. As soon as the files have undoubled the rear-rank will close to its proper distance.
The captain and covering sergeant, as well as the left guide, if the march be by the left flank, will
return to their habitual places in line, at the instant the company faces to the front.

         149. The instructor may then align the company by one of the means prescribed No. 100.

                                                ARTICLE IV.

 The company being in march by the flank, to form it on the right (or left)
                                       by file into line of battle.

         150. If the company be marching by the right flank, the instructor will command:

                            1. On the right, by file into line. 2. MARCH.

         151. At the command march, the rear-rank men doubled, will mark time; the captain and
the covering sergeant will turn to the right, march straight-forward, and be halted by the
instructor when they shall have passed at least six paces beyond the rank of file closers; the
captain will place himself correctly on the line of battle, and will direct the alignment as the men
of the front-rank successively arrive; the covering sergeant will place himself behind the captain
at the distance of the rear-rank; the two men on the right of the front-rank doubled, will conti nue
to march, and passing beyond the covering sergeant and the captain, will turn to the right; after
turning, they will continue to march elbow to elbow, and direct themselves toward the line of
battle, but when they shall arrive at two paces from this line, the even number will shorten the
step so that the odd number may precede him on the line, the odd number placing himself by the
side and on the left of the captain; the even number will afterward oblique to the left, and place
himself on the left of the odd number; the next two men of the front-rank doubled, will pass in
the same manner behind the two first, turn then to the right, and place themselves, according to
the means just explained to the left, and by the side of, the two men already established on the
line; the remaining files of this rank will follow in succession, and be formed to the left in the
same manner. The rear-rank doubled will execute the movement in the manner already
explained for the front-rank, taking care not to commence the movement until four men of the
front-rank are established on the line of battle; the rear-rank men, as they arrive on the line, will
cover accurately their file leaders.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  80
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  81

         152. If the company be marching by the left flank, the instructor will cause it to form by
file on the left into line of battle, according to the same principles and by the same commands,
substituting the indication left for right. In this case, the odd numbers will shorten the step, so
that the even numbers may precede them on the line. The captain, placed on the left, of the
front-rank, and the left guide, will return to their places in line of battle, by order of the
instructor, after the company shall be formed and aligned.

         153. To enable the men the better to comprehend the mechanism of this movement, the
instructor will at first cause it to be executed separately by each rank doubled, and afterward by
the two ranks united and doubled.

         154. The instructor will place himself on the line of battle, and without the point where
the right or left is to rest, in order to establish the base of the alignme nt, and afterward he will
follow up the movement to assure himself that each file conforms itself to what is prescribed No.
151.

                                                 ARTICLE V.

   The company being in march by the flank, to form it by company, or by
 platoon, into line, and to cause it to face to the right and left in marching.

         155. The company being in march by the right flank, the instructor will order the captain
to form it into line; the captain will immediately command:

                                1. By company, into line. 2. MARCH.

         156. At the command march, the covering sergeant will continue to march straight-
forward; the men will advance the right shoulder take the double quick step, and move into line
by the shortest route, taking care to undouble the files, and to come on the line one after the
other.

         157. As the front-rank men successively arrive in line with the covering sergeant, they
will take from him the step, and then turn their eyes to the front.

         158. The men of the rear-rank will conform to the movements of their respective file
leaders, but without endeavoring to arrive in line at the same time with the latter.

         159. If the company, marching either by the right or left flank, be faced about previous to
forming line, the men will come into line by twos, and according to the means as above
indicated, taking care to undouble files, the two front-rank men taking their places in the line at
the same time, to be covered by their rear-rank men taking an oblique step.

         160. At the instant the moveme nt begins, the captain will face to his company in order to
follow up the execution; and, as soon as the company is formed, he will command, guide left,
place himself two paces before the centre, face to the front, and take the step of the company.

         161. At the command guide left, the second sergeant will promptly place himself in the
front-rank, on the left, to serve as guide, and the covering sergeant who is on the opposite flank
will remain there.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  82
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  83

         162. When the company marches by the left flank, this movement will be executed by
the same commands, and according to the same principles; the company being formed, the
captain will command guide right, and place himself in front of his company as above; the
covering sergeant who is on the right of the front-rank will serve as guide, and the second
sergeant placed on the left flank will remain there.

         163. Thus, in a column by company, right or left in front, the covering sergeant and the
second sergeant of each company will always be placed on the right and left, respectively, of the
front-rank; they will be denominated right guide, and left guide, and the one or the other charged
with the direction.

         164. The company being in march by the flank if it be the wish of the instructor to cause
it to form platoons, he will give an order to that effect to the captain, who will command:

                                 1. By platoon, into line. 2. MARCH.

         165. The movement will be executed by each platoon according to the above principles.
The captain will place himself before the centre of the first platoon, and the first lieutenant
before the centre of the second, passing through the opening made in the centre of the company,
if the march be by the right flank, and around the left of his platoon, if the march be by the left:
in this last case, the captain will also pass around the left of the second platoon, in order to place
himself in front of the first. Both the captain and lieutenant, without waiting for each other, will
command guide left (or right) at the instant their respective platoons are formed.

         166. At the command guide left (or right), the guide of each platoon will pass rapidly to
the indicated flank if not already there.

         167. The right guide of the company will always serve as the guide of the right or left of
the first platoon, and the left guide of the company will serve, in like manner, as the guide of the
second platoon.

         168. Thus in a column, by platoon, there will be but one guide to each platoon; he will
always be placed on its left flank, if the right be in front, and on the right flank, if the left be in
front.

         169. In these movements, the file closers will follow the platoons to which they are
attached.

         170. The instructor may cause the company, marching by the flank, to form by company,
or by platoon, into line, by his own direct commands, using those prescribed for the captain, No.
155 or 164.

         171. The instructor will exercise the company in passing, without a halt, from the march
by the front, to the march by the flank, and reciprocally. In either case, he will employ the
commands prescribed in the S. S., No. 374, substituting company for squad. The company will
face to the right or left, in marching, and the captain, the guides, and file-closers, will conform
themselves to what is prescribed for each in the march by the flank, or in the march by the front
of a company supposed to be a subdivision of a column.

         172. If, after facing to the right or left, in marching, the company find itself faced by the
rear-rank, the captain will place himself two paces behind the centre of the front-rank, now in the
rear, the guides will pass to the rear-rank, now leading, and the file closers will march in front of
this rank.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  84

         173. The company being in march either by the front or flank, and if the instructor should
wish to face it by a flank without continuing the march it will be executed by the commands and
means prescribed in the S. S., Nos. 379-380, substituting company for squad.

         174. The company marching in column by platoon, can be faced to the right or left, by
the commands, as above indicated. At the first command, the chiefs of platoons and the guides,
will go quickly to the indicated flank. At the command march, each subdivision will face, and
be led off in the new direction by its chief. If the right be in front, the subdivision can be filed to
the left, immediately after being faced either to the right or left, by the command by file left
before the command march. If the left be in front, the command will be by file right before the
command march.

         175. The instructor, in order to avoid fatiguing the men and to prevent them from being
negligent in the position of shoulder arms, will sometimes order support arms in marching by the
flank, and arms on the right shoulder, when marching in line.

                                              LESSON FIFTH.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

          To break into column by platoon, either at a halt or on march.

         176. The company being at a halt, in line of battle, the instructor, wishing to break it into
column, by platoon to the right, will command:

                               1. By platoon, right wheel. 2. MARCH.

         177. At the first command, the chiefs of platoon will rapidly place themselves two paces
before the centres of their respective platoons, the lieutenant passing around the left of the
company. They need not occupy themselves with dressing one upon the other. The covering
sergeant will replace the captain in the front-rank.

         178. At the command march, the right front-rank man of each platoon will face to the
right, the covering sergeant standing fast; the chief of each platoon will move quickly by the
shortest line, a little beyond the point at which the marching flank will rest when the wheel shall
be completed, face to the late rear, and place himself so that the line which he forms with the
man on the right (who had faced), shall be perpendicular to that occupied by the company in line
of battle; each platoon will wheel according to the principles prescribed for the wheel on a fixed
pivot, and when the man who conducts the marching flank shall approach near to the
perpendicular, its chief will command:

                                            1. Platoon. 2. HALT.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  85
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  86

         179. At the command halt, which will be given at the instant the man who conducts the
marching flank shall have arrived at three paces from the perpendicular, the platoon will halt; the
covering sergeant will move to the point where the left of the first platoon is to rest, passing by
the front-rank; the second sergeant will place himself, in like manner, in respect to the second
platoon. Each will take care to leave between himself and the man on the right of his platoon a
space equal to its front; the captain and first lieutenant will look to this, and each take care to
align the sergeant between himself and the man of the platoon who had faced to the right.

         180. The guide of each platoon, being thus established on the perpendicular, each chief
will place himself two paces outside of his guide, and, facing toward him, will command:

                                               3. Left--DRESS.

         181. The alignment being ended, each chief of platoon will command, FRONT, and
place himself two paces before its centre.

         182. The file closers will conform themselves to the movement of their respective,
platoons, preserving always the distance of two paces from the rear-rank.

         183. The company will break by platoon to the left, according to the same principles.
The instructor will command:

                                 1. By platoon, left wheel. 2. MARCH.

         184. The first command will be executed in the same manner as if breaking by platoon
right.

         185. At the command march, the left front-rank man of each platoon will face to the left,
and the platoons will wheel to the left, according to the principles prescribed for the wheel on a
fixed pivot; the chiefs of platoon will conform to the principles indicated Nos. 178 and 179.

         186. At the command halt, given by the chief of each platoon, the covering sergeant on
the right of the front-rank of the first platoon, and the second sergeant near the left of the second
platoon, will each move to the points where the right of his platoon is to rest. The chief of each
platoon should be careful to align the sergeant between himself and the man of the platoon who
had faced to the left, and will then command:

                                               Right--DRESS.

         187. The platoons being aligned, each chief of platoon will command, FRONT, and
place himself opposite its centre.

         188. The instructor wishing to break the company by platoon to the right, and to move
the column forward after the wheel is completed, will caution the company to that effect, and
command:

                               1. By platoon, right wheel. 2. MARCH.

         189. At the first command, the chiefs of platoon will move rapidly in front of their
respective platoons, conforming to what has been prescribed No. 177, and will remain in this
position during the continuance of the wheel. The covering sergeant will replace the chief of the
first platoon in the front-rank.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  87

         190. At the command march the platoons will wheel to the right, conforming to the
principle herein prescribed; the man on the pivot will not face to the right, but will mark time,
conforming himself to the movement of the marching flank; and when the man who is on the left
of this flank shall arrive near the perpendicular, the instructor will command:

                                3. Forward. 4. MARCH. 5. Guide left.

         191. At the fourth command which will be given at the instant the wheel is completed,
the platoons will move straight to the front, all the men taking the step of twenty-eight inches.
The covering sergeant and the second sergeant will move rapidly to the left of their respective
platoons, the former passing before the front-rank. The leading guide will immediately take
points on the ground in the direction which may be indicated to him by the instructor.

         192. At the fifth command, the men will take the touch of elbows lightly to the left.
         193. If the guide of the second platoon should lose his distance, or the line of direction,
he will conform to the principles hereinafter prescribed, Nos. 207 and 208.
         194. If the company be marching in line to the front, the instructor will cause it to break
by platoon to the right by the same commands. At the command march, the platoons will wheel
in the manner already explained; the man on the pivot will take care, to mark time in his place,
without advancing or receding; the instructor, the chiefs of platoon, and the guides, will conform
to what has been prescribed Nos. 189, and following.
         195. The company may be broken by platoons to his left, according to the same
principles, and by inverse means, the instructor giving the command prescribed Nos. 188 and
190, substituting left, for right, and reciprocally.
         196. The movements explained in Nos. 188 and 194 will only be executed after the
company has become well established in the principles of the march in column, Articles Second
and Third.

                                                  REMARKS.

         197. The instructor, placed in front of the company, will observe whether the movement
be executed according to the principles prescribed above; whether the platoons, after breaking
into column, are perpendicular to the line of battle just occupied; and whether the guide, who
placed himself where the marching flank of his platoon had to rest, has left, between himself and
his front-rank man on the right (or left), the space necessary to contain the front of the platoon.

         198. After the platoons have broken, if the rearmost guide should not accurately cover
the leading one, he will not seek to correct his position, till the column be put in march, unless
the instructor, wishing to wheel immediately into line, should think it necessary to rectify the
direction of the guides, which would be executed as will be hereinafter explained in Article V. of
this Lesson.

         199. The instructor will observe, that the man on the right (or left) of each platoon, who,
at the command march, faces to the right (or left) being the true pivot of the wheel, the front-rank
man next to him ought to gain a little ground to the front in wheeling, so as to clear the pivot-
man.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  88

                                                 ARTICLE II.

                                          To march in column.

         200. The company having broken by platoon, right (or left) in front, the instructor,
wishing to cause the column to march, will place himself twenty-five or thirty paces in front,
face to the guides, establish himself correctly, on their direction, and caution the leading guide to
take points on the ground.

         201. The instructor being thus placed, the guide of the leading platoon will take two
points on the ground in the straight line passing between his own and the heels of the instructor.

         202. These dispositions being made, the instructor will step aside, and command:

                   1. Column, forward. 2. Guide left (or right). 3. MARCH.

         203. At the command march, promptly repeated by the chiefs of platoon, they, as well as
the guides, will lead off, by a decided step, their respective platoons, in order that the whole may,
move smartly, and at the same moment.

         204. The men will each feel lightly the elbow of his neighbor toward the guide, and
conform himself, in marching, to the principles prescribed in the S. S., No. 336. The man next to
the guide, in each platoon, will take care never to pass him, and also to march always about six
inches to the right (or left) from him, in order not to push him out of the direction.

         205. The leading guide will observe, with the precision, the length and cadence of the
step, and maintain the direction of his march by the means prescribed No. 89.

         206. The following guide will march exactly in the trace of the leading one, preserving
between the latter and himself a distance precisely equal to the front of his platoon, and marching
in his same step with the leading guide.

         207. If the following guide lose his distance from the one leading (which can only
happen by his own fault), he will correct himself by slightly lengthening or shortening a few
steps, in order that there may not be sudden quickenings or slackenings in the march of his
platoon.

         208. If the same guide, having neglected to march exactly in the trace of the preceding
one, find himself sensibly out of the direction, he will remedy this fault by advancing more or
less the shoulder opposite to the true direction, and thus, with few steps, insensibly regain it,
without the inconvenience of the oblique step, which would cause a loss of distance. In all cases,
each chief of platoon will cause it to conform to the movements of its guide.

                         REMARKS ON THE MARCH IN COLUMN.

         209. If the chiefs and guides of subdivisions neglect to lead off, and to decide the march
from the first step, the march will be begun in uncertainty, which will cause waverings, a loss of
step, and a loss of distance.

         210. If the leading guide take unequal steps, the march of his subdivision, and that which
follows, will be uncertain; there will be undulations, quickenings, and slackenings in the march.

         211. If the same guide be not habituated to prolong a given direction, without deviation,
he will describe a crooked line, and the column must wind to conform itself to such line.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  89

         212. If the following guide be not habituated to march in the trace of the preceding one,
he will lose his distance at every moment in endeavors to regain the trace, the preservation of
which is the most important principle in the march in column.

         213. The guide of each subdivision in column will be responsible for the direction,
distance, and step; the chief of the subdivision, for the order and conformity of his subdivision
with the movements of the guide. Accordingly, the chief will frequently turn, in the march, to
observe his subdivision.

         214. The instructor, placed on the flank of the guides, will watch over the execution of all
the principles prescribed; he will, also, sometimes place himself in the rear, align himself on the
guides, and halt, pending some thirty paces together to verify the accuracy of the guides.

         215. In column, chiefs of subdivision will always repeat, with the greatest promptitude,
the commands march and halt, no chief waiting for another but each repeating the command the
moment be catches it from the instructor. They will repeat no other command given by him; but
will explain, if necessary, to their subdivisions, in an under tone of voice, what they will have to
execute, as indicated by the commands of caution.

                                                ARTICLE III.

                                          To change direction.

         216. The changes of direction of a column marching, will be executed according to the
principles prescribed for wheeling on the march. Whenever, therefore, a column is to change
direction, the instructor will change the guide, if not already there, to the flank opposite the side
to which the change is to be made.

         217. The column being in march right in front, if it be the wish of the instructor to change
direction to the right, he will give the order to the chief of the first platoon, and immediately go
himself, or send a marker to the point at which the change of direction is to be made; the
indicator or marker, will place himself on the direction of the guides, so as to present the breast
to that flank of the column.

         218. The leading guide will direct his march on that person, so that, in passing, his left
arm may just graze his breast. When the leading guide shall have approached near to the marker,
the chief of his platoon will command:

                                       1. Right wheel. 2. MARCH.

         219. The first command will be given when the platoon is at the distance of four paces
from the marker.

         220. At the command march, which will be pronounced at the instant the guide shall
have arrived opposite the marker, the platoon will wheel to the right, conforming to what is
prescribed in the S. S., No. 409.

         221. The wheel being finished, the chief of each platoon will command:

                                         3. Forward. 4. MARCH.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  90

         222. These commands will be pronounced and executed as is prescribed in the S. S., Nos.
411 and 412. The guide of the first platoon will take points on the ground in the new direction,
in order the better to regulate the march.

         223. The second platoon will continue to march straight-forward till up with the marker,
when it will wheel to the right, and retake the direct march by the same commands and the same
means which governed the first platoon.

         224. The column being in march right in front, if the instructor should wish to change
direction to the left) he will command, guide right. At this command, the two guides will move
rapidly to the right of their respective platoons, each passing in front of his subdivision; the men
will take the touch of elbows to the right; the instructor will afterwards conform to what is
prescribed No. 217.

         225. The change of direction to the left will then be executed according to the same
principles as the change of direction to the right, but by inverse means.

         226. When the change of direction is completed, the instructor will command, guide left.
         227. The changes of direction in a column, left in front, will be executed according to the
same principles.
         228. In changes of direction in double quick time the platoon will wheel according to the
principles prescribed in the S. S., No. 417.
         229. In order to prepare the men for those formations in line, which can be executed only
by turning to the right or the left, the instructor will sometimes cause the column to change
direction to the side of the guide. In this case, his chief of the leading platoon will command:
Left (or right) turn, instead of left (or right) wheel. The subdivisions will each turn, in
succession; conforming to what is prescribed in the S. S., No. 415. The leading guide, as soon as
he has turned, will take points on the ground, the better to regulate the direction of the march.
         230. It is highly important, in order to preserve distances and the direction, that all the
subdivisions of the column should change direction precisely at the point where the leading
subdivision changed; it is for this reason that that point ought to be marked in advance, and that
it is prescribed that the guides direct their march on the marker, also that each chief of
subdivision shall not cause the change to commence till, the guide of his subdivision has grazed
the breast of this marker.
         231. Each chief will take care that his subdivision arrives at the point of change in a
square with the line of direction: with this view, he will face to his subdivision when the one
which precedes has commenced to turn or to wheel, and he will be watchful that it continues to
march squarely until it arrives at the point where the change of direction is to commence.
         232. If, in changes of direction, the pivot of the subdivision which wheels should not
clear the wheeling point, the next subdivision would be arrested and distances lost; for the guide
who conducts the marching rank having to describe an arc in length about once and a half the
front of the subdivision, the second subdivision would be already up with the wheeling point,
whilst the first which wheels has yet the half of its front to execute, and hence would be obliged
to mark time until that half be executed. It is therefore prescribed, that the pivot of each
subdivision should take steps of nine or eleven inches in length, according to the swiftness of the
gait, in order not to arrest the march of the next subdivision. The chiefs of subdivision will look
well to the step of the pivot, and cause his step to be lengthened or shortened as may be judged
necessary. By the nature of this movement, the centre of each subdivision will bend a little to the
rear.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  91

         233. The guides will never alter the length or the cadence of the step, whether the change
of direction be to the side of the guide or to the opposite side.

         234. The marker, placed at the wheeling point, will always present his breast to the flank
of the column. The instructor will take the greatest pains in causing the prescribed principles to
be observed; he will see that each subdivision only commences the change of direction when the
guide, grazing the breast of the marker, has nearly passed him, and, that the marching flank does
not describe the are of too large a circle, in order that it may not be thrown beyond the new
direction.

         235. In change of direction by wheel, the guide of the wheeling flank will cast his eyes
over the ground at the moment of commencing the wheel, and will describe an are of a circle
whose radius is equal to the front of the subdivision.

                                                ARTICLE IV.

                                           To halt the column.

         236. The column being in march, when the instructor shall wish to halt it, he will
command:

                                            1. Column. 2. HALT.

         237. At the second command, promptly repeated by the chiefs of platoon, the column
will halt; the guides also will stand fast, although they may have lost both distance and direction.

         238. If the command halt be not repeated with the greatest vivacity, and executed at the
same instant, distances will be lost.

         239. If a guide, having lost his distance, seek to recover it after that command, he will
only throw his fault on the following guide, who, if he have marched well, will no longer be at
his proper distance; and if the latter regain what he has thus lost, the movement will be
propagated to the rear of the column.

                                                 ARTICLE V.

 Being in column by platoon, to form to the right or left into line of battle,
                                 either at a halt, or on the march.

         240. The instructor having halted the column right in front, and wishing to form it into
line of battle, will place himself at platoon distance in front of the leading guide, face to him, and
rectify, if necessary, the position of the guide beyond, which being executed, he will command:

                                                 Left--DRESS.

         241. At this command, which will not be repeated by the chiefs of platoon, each of them
will place himself briskly two paces outside of his guide, and direct the alignment of the platoon
perpendicular to the direction of the column.

         242. Each chief having aligned his platoon, will command FRONT, and return quickly
to his place in column.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  92
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  93

         243. This disposition being made, the instructor will command:

                                  1. Left into line, wheel. 2. MARCH.

         244. At the command march, briskly repeated by the chiefs of platoon, the front-rank
man on the left of each platoon will face to the left, and place his breast lightly against the arm of
the guide by his side, who stands fast; the platoons will wheel to the left on the principle of
wheels from a halt, and in conformity to what is prescribed in No. 199. Each chief will turn to
his platoon to observe its movement, and when the marching flank has approached near the line
of battle, he will command:

                                            1. Platoon. 2. HALT.

         245. The command halt, will be given when the marching flank of the platoon is three
paces from the line of battle.

         246. The chief of the second platoon, having halted it, will return to his place as a file
closer, passing around the left of his subdivision.

         247. The captain having halted the first platoon, will move rapidly to the point at which
the right of the company will rest in line of battle, and command:

                                               Right--DRESS.

         248. At this command, the two platoons will dress up on the alignment; the front-rank
man on the right of the leading platoon, who finds himself opposite the instructor established on
the direction of the guides, will place his breast lightly against the left arm of this officer. The
captain will direct the alignment from the right on the man on the opposite flank of the company.

         249. The company being aligned, the captain will command:

                                                     FRONT.

         250. The instructor seeing the company in line of battle, will command:

                                               Guides--POSTS.

         251. At this command, the covering sergeant will cover the captain, and the left guide
will return to his place as a file closer.

         252. If the column be left in front, and the instructor should wish to form it to the right
into line of battle, he will place himself at platoon distance in front of the leading guide, face to
him, and rectify, if necessary the position of the guide beyond; which being executed, he will
command:

                                 1. Right into line, wheel. 2. MARCH.

         253. At the command march, the front-rank man on the right of each platoon will face to
the right and place his breast lightly against the left arm of the guide by his side, who stands fast;
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  94

each platoon will wheel to the right, and will be halted by its chief, when the marching flank has
approached near the line of battle; for this purpose the chief of each platoon will command:

                                            1. Platoon. 2. HALT.

         254. The command halt, will be given when the marching flank of the platoon is three
paces from the line of battle. The chief of the second platoon having halted his platoon, will
resume his place in the rank of file closers.

         255. The captain having halted the first platoon, will move briskly to the point at which
the left of the company will rest, and command:

                                                 Left--DRESS.

         256. At this command, the two platoons will dress up on the alignment; the man on the
left of the second platoon, opposite the instructor, will place his breast lightly against the right
arm of this officer, and the captain will direct the alignment from the left on the man on the
opposite flank of the company.

         257. The company being aligned, the captain will command:

                                                     FRONT.

         258. The instructor will afterwards command:

                                               Guides--POSTS.

         259. At this command, the captain will move to the right of his company, the covering
sergeant will cover him, and the left guide will return to his place as a file closer.

         260. The instructor may omit the command left or right dress, previous to commanding
left or right into line, wheel, unless after rectifying the position of the guides, it should become
necessary to dress the platoons, or one of them, laterally to the right or left.

         261. The instructor, before the command left (or right) into line, wheel, will assure
himself that the rearmost platoon is at its exact wheeling distance from the one in front. This
attention is important, in order to detect negligence on the part of guides in this essential point.

         262. If the column be marching right in front, and the instructor should wish to form it
into line without halting the column, he will give the commands prescribed No. 243, and move
rapidly to platoon distance in front of the leading guide.

         263. At the command march, briskly repeated by the chiefs of platoon, the left guides
will halt short, the instructor, the chiefs of platoon and the platoons, will conform to what is
prescribed No. 244 and following.

         264. If the column be in march left in front, this formation will be made according to the
same principles, and by inverse means.

         265. If the column be marching right in front, and the instructor should wish to form it
into line without halting the column, and to march the company in line to the front, he will
command:

                                1. By platoons left wheel. 2. MARCH.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  95

         266. At the command march, briskly repeated by the chiefs of platoon, the left guides
will halt: the man next to the left guide in each platoon will mark time: the platoons will wheel to
the left, conforming to the principles of the wheel on a fixed pivot. When the right of the
platoons shall arrive near the line of battle, the instructor will command:

                        3. Forward. 4. MARCH. 5. Guides right (or left).

         267. At the fourth command, given at the instant the wheel is completed, all the men of
the company will move off together with the step of twenty-eight inches; the captain, the chief of
the second platoon, the covering sergeant, and the left guide will take their positions as in line of
battle.

         268. At the fifth command, which will be given immediately after the fourth, the captain
and covering sergeant, if not already there, will move briskly to the side on which the guide is
designated The non-commissioned officer charged with the direction will move rapidly in front
of the guide, and will be assured in his line of march by the instructor, as is prescribed No. 104.
That non-commissioned officer will immediately take points on the ground as indicated in the
same number. The men will take the touch of elbows to the side of the guide, conforming
themselves to the principles of the march in line.

         269. The same principles are applicable to a column left in front.

                                              LESSON SIXTH.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

        To break the company into platoons, and to reform the company.

                      TO BREAK THE COMPANY INTO PLATOONS.

         270. The company marching in the cadenced step, and supposed to make part of a
column, right in front, when the instructor shall wish to cause it to break by platoon, he will give
the order to the captain, who will command: 1. Break into platoons, and immediately place
himself before the centre of the first platoon.

         271. At the command break into platoons, the first lieutenant will pass quickly around
the left to the centre of his platoon, and give the caution: Mark time.

         272. The captain will then command: 2. March.
         273. The first platoon will continue to march straight-forward; the covering sergeant will
move rapidly to the left flank of this platoon (passing by the front-rank) as soon as the flank shall
be disengaged.
         274. At the command march, given by the captain, the second platoon will begin to mark
time; its chief will immediately add: 1. Right oblique. 2. MARCH. The last command will
be given so that this platoon may commence obliquing the instant the rear-rank of the first
platoon shall have passed. The men will shorten the step in obliquing, so that when the
command forward march is given, the platoon may have its exact distance.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  96
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  97

         275. The guide of the second platoon being near the direction of the guide of the first, the
chief of the second will command Forward and add MARCH, the instant that the guide of his
platoon shall cover the guide of the first.

         276. In a column, left in front, the company will break into platoons by inverse means,
applying to the first platoon all that has been prescribed for the second, and reciprocally.

         277. In this case, the left guide of the company will shift to the right flank of the second
platoon, and the covering sergeant will remain on the right of the first.

                                  TO RE-FORM THE COMPANY.

         278. The column, by platoon, being in march, right in front, when the instructor shall
wish to cause it to form company, he will give the order to the captain, who will command:

                                                Form company.

         279. Having given this command, the captain will immediately add:

                                   1. First platoon; 2. Right oblique.

         280. The chief of the second platoon will caution it to continue to march straight-
forward.

         281. The captain will then command:

                                                  3. MARCH.

         282. At this command, repeated by the chief of the second, the first platoon will oblique
to the right, in order to unmask the second; the covering sergeant, on the left of the first platoon,
will return to the right of the company, passing by the front-rank.

         283. When the first platoon shall have nearly unmasked the second, the captain will
command: 1. Mark time, and at the instant the unmasking shall be complete, he will add: 2.
MARCH. The first platoon will then cease to oblique, and mark time.

         284. In the mean time the second platoon will have continued to march straight-forward,
and when it shall be nearly up with the first, the captain will command Forward, and at the
instant the two platoons shall unite, add MARCH; the first platoon will then cease to mark time.

         285. In a column, left in front, the same movement will be executed by inverse means,
the chief of the second platoon giving the command Forward, and the captain adding the
command MARCH, when the platoons are united.

         286. The guide of the second platoon, on its right, will pass to its left flank the moment
the platoon begins to oblique; the guide of the first, on its right, remaining on that flank of the
platoon.

         287. The instructor will also sometimes cause the company to break and re-form, by
platoon, by his own direct commands. In this case, he will give the general commands
prescribed for the captain above: 1. Break into platoons; 2. MARCH; and 1. Form
company; 2. MARCH.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  98

         288. If, in breaking the company into platoons, the subdivision that breaks off should
mark time too long, it might, in a column of many subdivisions, arrest the in arch of the
following one, which would cause a lengthening of the column, and a loss of distances.

         289. In breaking into platoons, it is necessary that the platoons which oblique should not
shorten the step too much, in order not to lose distance in column, and not to arrest the march of
the following subdivision.

         290. If a platoon obliques too far to a flank, it would be obliged to oblique again to the
opposite flank, to regain the direction and by the double movement arrest, probably, the march of
the following subdivision.

         291. The chiefs of those platoons which oblique will face to their platoons, in order to
enforce the observance of the foregoing principles.

         292. When, in a column of several companies, they break in succession, it is of the
greatest importance that each company should continue to march in the same step, without
shortening or slackening, whilst that which precedes breaks, although the following company
should close up on the preceding one. This attention is essential to guard against an elongation
of the column.

         293. Faults of but little moment, in a column of a few companies, would be serious
inconveniences in a general column of many battalions. Hence the instructor will give the
greatest care in causing all the prescribed principles to be strictly observed. To this end, he will
hold himself on the directing flank, the better to observe all the movements.

                                                 ARTICLE II.

  Being in column, to break files to the rear, and to cause them to re-enter
                                                   into line.

         294. The company being in march, and supposed to constitute a subdivision of a column,
right (or left) in front, when the instructor shall wish to cause files to break off, be will give the
order to the captain, who will immediately turn to his company, and command:

                       1. Two files from left (or right) to rear. 2. MARCH.

         295. At the command march, the two files on the left (or right) of the company will face
to the right (or left) and double the others will continue to march straight-forward. If the files are
broken from the left the men will immediately file to the left, so that the odd numbers will cover
the first and third, and the even numbers, the second and fourth files, from that flank of
company. If the files are broken from the right, the men will immediately file to the right so that
the even numbers will cover the first and third, and the odd numbers, the second and fourth files
from that flank of the company. The men will be careful not to lose their distances and to keep
aligned.

         296. If the instructor should still wish to break two files from the same side, he will give
the order to the captain, who will proceed as above directed.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  99
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  100

         297. At the command march, given by the captain, the files already broken, advancing a
little the outer shoulder, will gain the space of two files to the right, if the files are broken from
the left, and to the left, if the files are broken from the right, shortening, at the same time, the
step, in order to make room between themselves and the rear-rank of the company for the files
last ordered to the rear; the latter will break by the same commands, and in the same manner as
the first. The men who double, should increase his length of the step, in order to prevent
distances from being lost.

         298. The instructor may thus diminish the front of a company by breaking off successive
groups of two files, but the new files must always be broken from the same side.

         299. The instructor, wishing to cause files broken off to return into line, will give the
order to his captain, who will immediately command:

                                   1. Two files into line. 2. MARCH.

         300. At the command march, the first two files of those marching by the flank will return
briskly into line, and the others will gain the space of two files by advancing the inner shoulder
toward the flank to which they belong.

         301. The captain will turn to his company, to watch the observance of the principles
which have just been prescribed.

         302. The instructor having caused groups of two files to break one after another, and to
return again into line, will afterward cause two or three groups to break together, and for this
purpose, will command: Four or six files from left (or right) to rear; MARCH. The files
designated will face to the right (or left) and double and will then immediately file into their
proper places as indicated No. 295, taking care that the distances are preserved.

         303. The instructor will next order the captain to cause two or three groups to be brought
into line at once, who, turning to the company, will command:

                                  Four or six file into line--MARCH.

         304. At the command march, the files designated will advance the inner shoulder, move
up and form on the flank of the company by the shortest lines.

         305. As often as files shall break off to the rear, the guide on that flank will gradually
close on the nearest front-rank man remaining in line and he will also open out to make room for
file ordered into line.

         306. The files which march in the rear are disposed in the following order: the left files as
if the company was marching by the right flank, and the right files as if the company was
marching by the left flank. Consequently, whenever there is on the right or left of a subdivision,
a file which does not belong to a group, it will be broken singly.

         307. It is necessary to the preservation of distances in column, that the men should be
habituated in the schools of detail to execute the movements of this article with precision.

         308. If the new files broken to the rear do not step well off when filing to the left or right;
if, when files are ordered into line, they do not move up with promptitude and precision, in either
case, the following files will be arrested in their march, and thereby cause the column to be
lengthened out.

         309. The instructor will place himself on the flank from which the files are broken, to
assure himself of the exact observance of the principles.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  101

         310. Files will only be broken off from the side of direction, in order that the whole
company may easily pass from the front to the flank march.

                                                ARTICLE III.

    To march the column in route and to execute the movements incident
                                                    thereto.

         311. The swiftness of the route step will be one hundred and ten steps in a minute; this
swiftness will be habitually maintained in columns in route, when the roads and ground may
permit.

         312. The company being at a halt, and supposed to constitute a subdivision of a column,
when the instructor shall wish to cause it to march in the route step, he will command:

        1. Column, forward. 2. Guide, left (or right). 3. Route step. 4. MARCH.

         313. At the command march, repeated by the captain, the two ranks will step off
together; the rear-rank will take in marching, by shortening a few steps, a distance of one pace
(twenty-eight inches) from the rank preceding, which distance will be computed from the breasts
of the men in the rear-rank, to the knapsacks of the men in the front-rank. The men, without
further command, will immediately carry their arms at will, as indicated in the S. S., No. 228 or
they may sling them on their backs muzzle up. They will no longer be required to march in the
cadence pace, or with the same foot, or to remain silent. The files will march at ease; but care
will be taken to prevent the ranks from intermixing, the front-rank from getting in advance of the
guide, and the rear-rank from opening to too great a distance.

         314. The company marching in the route step, the instructor will cause it to change
direction, which will be executed without formal commands, on a simple caution from the
captain; the rear-rank will come up to change direction in the same manner as the front-rank.
Each rank will conform itself, although in the route step, to the principles which have been
prescribed for the change in closed ranks, with this difference only; that the pivot man, instead of
taking steps of nine, will take steps of fourteen inches, in order to clear the wheeling point.

         315. The company marching in the route step, to cause it to pass to the cadence step, the
instructor will first order pieces to be brought to the right shoulder, and then command:

                                        1. Quick time. 2. MARCH.

         316. At the command march, the men will resume the cadenced step, and will close so as
to leave a distance of sixteen inches between each rank.

         317. The company marching in the cadenced pace, the instructor, to cause it to take the
route step, will command:

                                        1. Route step. 2. MARCH.

         318. At the command march, the front-rank will continue the step of twenty-eight inches,
the rear-rank will take, by gradually shortening the step, the distance of twenty-eight, inches
from the front-rank; the men will carry their arms at will.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  102

         319. If the company be marching in the route step, and the instructor should suppose the
necessity of marching by the flank in the same direction he will command:

      1. Company by the right (or left) flank. 2. By file left (or right). 3. MARCH.

         320. At the command march, the company will face to the right (or left) in marching, the
captain will place himself by the side of the guide who conducts the leading flank: this guide will
wheel immediately to the left or right; all the files will come in succession to wheel on the same
spot as the guide; if there be files broken off to the rear, they will, by wheeling, regain their
respective places, and follow the movement of the company.

         321. The instructor having caused the company to be again formed into line, will exercise
it in increasing and diminishing front, by platoon which will be executed by the same commands,
and the same means, as if the company were marching in the cadenced step. When the company
breaks into platoons, the chief of each will move to the flank of his platoon, and will take the
place of the guide, who will step back into the rear-rank.

         322. The company being in column, by platoon, and supposed to march in the route step,
the instructor can cause the front to be diminished and increased, by section, if the platoons have
a front of twelve files or more.

         323. The movements of diminishing and increasing front, by section, will be executed
according to the principles indicated for the same movements by platoon. The right sections of
platoons will be commanded by the captain and first lieutenant, respectively; the left sections, by
the two next subalterns in rank, or, in their absence, by sergeants.

         324. The instructor wishing to diminish by section, will give the order to the captain, who
will command:

                                  1. Break into sections. 2. MARCH.

         325. As soon as the platoons shall be broken each chief of section will place himself on
its directing flank in the front-rank, the guides, who will be thus displaced, will fall back into the
rear-rank: the file closers will close up to within one pace of this rank.

         326. Platoons will be broken into sections only in the column in route, the movement will
never be executed in the manoeuvres, whatever may be the front of the company.

         327. When the instructor shall wish to re-form platoons, he will give the order to the
captain, who will command:

                                     1. Form platoons. 2. MARCH.

         328. At the first command, each chief of section will place himself before its centre, and
the aides will pass into the front-rank. At the command march, the movement will be executed
its has been prescribed for forming company. The moment the platoons are formed, the chiefs of
the left sections will return to their places as file closers.

         329. The instructor will also cause to be executed the diminishing and increasing front by
files, as prescribed in the preceding article, and in the same manner, as if marching in the
cadenced step. When the company is broken into sections, the subdivisions must not be reduced
to a front of less than six files, not counting the chief of the section.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  103

         330. The company being broken by platoon, or by section, the instructor will cause it,
marching in the route step, to march by the flank in the same direction, by the commands and the
means indicated, Nos. 319 and 320. The moment the subdivisions shall face to the right (or left),
the first file of each will wheel to the left (or right), in marching to prolong the direction, and to
unite with the rear file of the subdivision immediately preceding. The file closers will take their
habitual places in the march by the flank, before the union of the subdivisions.

         331. If the company be marching by the right flank, and the instructor should wish to
undouble the files, which might sometimes be found necessary, he will inform the captain, who,
after causing the cadenced step to be resumed, and arms to be shouldered or supported, will
command:

                            1. In two ranks, undouble files. 2. MARCH.

         332. At the second command the odd numbers will continue to march straight-forward,
the even numbers will shorten the step, and obliquing to the left, will place themselves promptly
behind the odd numbers: the rear-rank will gain a step to the left so as to retake the touch of
elbows on the side of the front-rank.

         333. If the company be marching by the left flank, it will be the even numbers who will
continue to march forward, and the odd numbers who will undouble.

         334. If it be found necessary, from the narrowness of the way or other cause, to reduce
the front still further, the captain, on an intimation from the instructor, will command:

                             1. In one rank, undouble files. 2. MARCH.

         335. At the command march, the right or left guide, with the leading front-rank man, will
continue the march, the rear-rank man stepping in rear of his file-leader as soon as he is able to
pass; the other files marking time. The second file, and successively all the other files, will step
off as soon as sufficient distance is gained, the front-rank man of each file following immediately
the rear-rank man of the file next in front of him, and each rear-rank man taking his place as
above indicated.

         336. If the instructor wishes to double files, he will so indicate to the captain, who will
command:

                              1. In two ranks, double files. 2. MARCH.

         337. At the command march, the rear-rank men will take a side step to the right (or left),
and each rank will close up on its leading file.

         338. If the instructor should wish again to double the files, he will give the order to the
captain, who will command:

                              1. In four ranks, double files. 2. MARCH.

         339. At the command march, the files will double in the manner as explained, when the
company faces by the right or the left flank. The instructor will afterward cause the route step to
be resumed.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  104

         340. The various movements prescribed in this lesson may be executed in double quick
time. The men will be brought, by degrees, to pass over at this gait about eleven hundred yards
in seven minutes.

         341. When the company marching in the route step shall halt, the rear-rank will close up
at the command halt, and the whole will shoulder arms.

         342. Marching in the route step, the men will be permitted to carry their pieces in the
manner they shall find most convenient, paying attention only to holding the muzzles up, so as to
avoid accidents.

                                                ARTICLE IV.

                                               Countermarch.

         343. The company being at a halt, and supposed to constitute part of a column, right in
front, when the instructor shall wish to cause it to countermarch, he will command:

       1. Countermarch. 2. Company, right--FACE. 3. By file, left. 4. MARCH.

         344. At the second command, the company will face to the right, the two guides to the
right about; the captain will go to the right of his company and cause two files to break to the
rear and then place himself by the side of the front-rank man, to conduct him.

         345. At the command march, both guides will stand fast; the company will step off
smartly; the first file, conducted by the captain, will wheel around the right guide, and direct its
march along the front-rank so as to arrive behind, and two paces from the left guide; each file
will come in succession to wheel on the same ground around the right guide; the leading file
having arrived at a point opposite to the left guide, the captain will command:

                    1. Company. 2. HALT. 3. FRONT. 4. Right--DRESS.

         346. The first command will be given at four paces from the point where the leading file
is to rest.

         347. At the second command, the company will halt.
         348. At the third, it will face to the front.
         349. At the fourth, the company will dress by the right; the captain will step two paces
outside of the left guide, now on the right, and direct the alignment, so that the front-rank may be
enclosed between the two guides: the company being aligned, he will command FRONT, and
place himself before the centre of the company as if in column; the guides, passing along the
front-rank, will shift to their proper places, on the right and left of that rank.
         350. In a column, by platoon, the countermarch will be executed by the same commands,
and according to the same principles; the guide of each platoon will face about, and its chief will
place himself by the side of the file on the right, to conduct it.
         351. In a column, left in front, the countermarch will be executed by inverse commands
and means, but according to the same principles. Thus, the movement will be made by the right
flank of subdivisions, if the right be in front, and by the left flank, if the left be in front; in both
cases the subdivisions will wheel by file to the side of the front-rank.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  105
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  106

                                                 ARTICLE V.

Being in column by platoon, to form on the right (or left) into line of battle.

         352. The column by platoon, right in front, being in march, the instructor, wishing to
form it on the right into line of battle, will command:

                               1. On the right into line. 2. Guide right.

         353. At the second command, the guide of each platoon will shift quickly to its right
flank and the men will touch elbows to the right; the column will continue to march straight-
forward.

         354. The instructor having given the second command, will move briskly to the point at
which the right of the company ought to rest in line, and place himself facing the point of
direction to the left which he will choose.

         355. The line of battle ought to be so chosen that the guide of each platoon, after having
turned to the right, may have, at least, ten paces to take before arriving upon that line.

         356. The head of the column being nearly opposite to the instructor, the chief of the first
platoon will command; 1. Right turn; and when exactly opposite to that point, he will add:

                                                  2. MARCH.

         357. At the command march, the first platoon will turn to the right, in conformity with
the principles prescribed in the S. S., No. 415. Its guide will so direct his march as to bring the
front-rank man, next on his left, opposite to the instructor; the chief of the platoon will march
before its centre; and when its guide shall be near the line of battle he will command:

                                            1. Platoon. 2. HALT.

         358. At the command halt, which will be given at the instant the right of the platoon shall
arrive at the distance of three paces from the line of battle, the platoon will halt; the files, not yet
in line, will come up promptly. The guide will place himself on the line of battle, opposite to one
of the three left files of his platoon; he will face to the instructor, who will align him on the point
of direction to the left. The chief of platoon having, at the same time, gone to the point where
the right of the company is to rest, will, as soon as he sees all the files of the platoon in line,
command:

                                               Right--DRESS.

         359. At this, the first platoon will align itself; the front-rank man, who finds himself
opposite to the guide, will rest his breast lightly against the right arm of this guide, and the chief
of the platoon, from the right, will direct the alignment on this man.

         360. The second platoon will continue to march straight-forward, until its guide shall
arrive opposite to the left file of the first; it will then turn to the right at the command of its chief,
and march toward the line of battle, its guide directing himself on the left file of the first platoon.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  107

         361. The guide having arrived at the distance of three paces from the line of battle, this
platoon will be halted, as prescribed for the first; at the instant it halts, its guide will spring on the
line of battle, opposite to one of the three left files of his platoon, and will be assured in his
position by the instructor.

         362. The chief of the second platoon, seeing all its files in line, and its guide established
on the direction, will command:

                                               Right--DRESS.

         363. Having given this command, he will return to his place as a file closer, passing
around the left; the second platoon will dress up on the alignment of the first, and, when
established, the captain will command:

                                                     FRONT.

         364. The movement ended, the instructor will command:

                                               Guides--POSTS.

         365. At this command, the two guides will return to their places in line of battle.
         366. A column, by platoon, left in front, will form on the left into line of battle, according
to the same principles, and, by inverse means, applying to the second platoon what is prescribed
for the first, and reciprocally. The chief of the second platoon having aligned it, from the point
d'appui, (the left,) will retire to his place as a file closer. The captain having halted the first
platoon three paces behind the line of battle, will go to the same point to align this platoon, and
then command: FRONT. At the command, guides--posts, given by the instructor, the captain
will shift to his proper flank, and the guides take their places in the line of battle.
         367. When the companies of a regiment are to be exercised, at the same time, in the
school of the company, the colonel will indicate the lesson or lessons they are severally to
execute. The whole will commence by a signal, and terminate in like manner.

 FORMATION OF A COMPANY FROM TWO RANKS INTO SINGLE RANK,
                                         AND RECIPROCALLY.

         368. The company being formed into two ranks in the manner indicated No. 15, Title I,
and supposed to make part of a column, right or left in front, when the instructor shall wish to
form it into single rank, he will command:

                             1. In one rank, form company. 2. MARCH.

         369. At the first command the right guide will face to the right.
         370. At the command march, the right guide will step off and march in the prolongation
of the front-rank.
         371. The first file will step off at the same time with the guide; the front-rank man will
turn to the right at the first step, follow the guide, and be himself followed by the rear-rank man
of his file, who will come to turn on the same spot where he had turned. The second file, and
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  108

successively all the other files, will step off as has been prescribed for the first, the front-rank
man of each file following immediately the rear-rank man of the file next on his right. The
captain will superintend the movement, and when the last man shall have stepped off, he will halt
the company, and face it to the front.

         372. The file closers will take their places in line of battle, two paces in rear of the rank.
         373. The company being in single rank, when the instructor shall wish to form it into two
ranks, he will command:

        1. In two ranks, form company. 2. Company, right--FACE. 3. MARCH.

         374. At the second command the company will face to the right; the right guide and the
man on the right will remain faced to the front.

         375. At the command march, the men who have faced to the right, will step off, and form
files in the following manner: the second man in the rank will place himself behind the first to
form the first file; the third will place himself by the side of the first in the front-rank: the fourth
behind the third in the rear-rank. All the others will, in like manner, place themselves,
alternately, in the front and rear-rank, and will thus form files of two men, on the left of those
already formed.

         376. The formations above described will be habitually executed by the right of
companies; but when the instructor shall wish to have them executed by the left, he will face the
company about, and post the guides in the rear-rank.

         377. The formation will then be executed by the same commands, and according to the
same principles as by the front-rank; the movement commencing with the left file, now become
the right, and in each file by the rear-rank man, now become the front; the left guide will
conform to what has been prescribed for the right.

         378. The formation ended, the instructor will face the company to its proper front.
         379. When a battalion in line has to execute either of the formations above described, the
colonel will cause it to break to the rear by the right or left of companies, and will then give the
commands just prescribed for the instructor. Each company will execute the movement as if
acting singly.

    FORMATION OF A COMPANY FROM TWO RANKS INTO FOUR, AND
                     RECIPROCALLY, AT A HALT, AND IN MARCH.

         380. The company being formed in two ranks, at a halt, and supposed to form part of a
column right in front, when the instructor shall wish to form it into four ranks, he will command:

   1. In four ranks, form company. 2. Company left--FACE. 3. MARCH (or double
                                              quick--MARCH).

         381. At the second command, the left guide will remain faced to the front, the company
will face to the left; the rear-rank will gain the distance of one pace from the front-rank by a side
step to the left and rear, and the men will form into four ranks as prescribed in Nos. 138 and 142.

         382. At the command march, the first file of four men will reface to the front without
undoubling. All the other files of four will step off, and closing successively to about five inches
of the preceding file, will halt, and immediately face to the front, the men remaining doubled.
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  109

         383. The file closers will take their new places in line of battle, at two paces in rear of the
fourth rank.

         384. The captain will superintend the movement.
         385. The company being in four ranks, when the instructor shall wish to form it into two
ranks, he will command:

  1. In two ranks, form company. 2. Company right--FACE. 3. MARCH (or double
                                              quick--MARCH).

         386. At the second command the left guide will stand fast, the company will face to the
right.

         387. At the command march, the right guide will step off and march in the prolongation
of the front-rank. The leading file of four men will step off at the same time, the other files
standing fast; the second file will step off when there shall be between it and the first, space
sufficient to form into two ranks. The following files will execute successively what has been
prescribed for the second. As soon as the last file shall have its distance, the instructor will
command:

                                  1. Company. 2. HALT. 3. FRONT.

         388. At the command front, the company will face to the front and the files will
undouble.

         389. The company being formed in two ranks, and marching to the front, when the
instructor shall wish to form it into four ranks, he will command:

  1. In four ranks, form company. 2. By the left, double files. 3. MARCH (or double
                                              quick--MARCH).

         390. At the command march, the left guide and the left file of the company will continue
to march straight to the front: the company will make a half face to the left, the odd numbers
placing themselves behind the even numbers. The even numbers of the rear-rank will shorten
their steps a little, to permit the odd numbers of the front-rank to get between them and the even
numbers of that rank. The files thus formed of fours, except the left file, will continue to march
obliquely, lengthening their steps slightly, so as to keep constantly abreast of the guide; each file
will close successively on the file next on its left, and when at the proper distance from that file
will face to the front by a half face to the right, and take the touch of elbows to the left.

         391. The company being in march to the front in four ranks, when the instructor shall
wish to form it into two ranks, he will command:

    1. In two ranks, form company. 2. By the right, undouble files. 3. MARCH (or
                                         double quick--MARCH).

         392. At the command march, the left guide and the left file of the company will continue
to march straight to the front; the company will make a half face to the right, and march
obliquely, lengthening the step a little, in order to keep, as near as possible, abreast of the guide.
As soon as the second file from the left shall have gained to the right the interval necessary for
SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.  110

the left file to form into two ranks, the second file will face to the front by a half face to the left,
and march straight-forward; the left file will immediately form into two ranks, and take the touch
of elbows to the left. Each file will execute successively, what has just been proscribed for the
file next to the left) and each file will form into two ranks when the file next on its right has
obliqued the required distance, and faced to the front.

         393. If the company be supposed to make part of a column, left in front, these different
movements will be executed according to the same principles, and by inverse means, substituting
the indication left for right.

                            END OF THE SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  111

                               TITLE IV.

                                               _______________

                      INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.

                  General Principles and Division of the Instruction.

         1. THE movements of skirmishers should be subjected to such rules as will give to the
commander the means of moving them in any direction with the greatest promptitude.

         2. It is not expected that these movements should be executed with the same precision as
in closed ranks, nor is it desirable, as such exactness would materially interfere with their prompt
execution.

         3. When skirmishers are thrown out to clear the way for, and to protect the advance of,
the main corps, their movements should be so regulated by this corps, as to keep it constantly
covered.

         4. Every body of skirmishers should have a reserve, the strength and composition of
which will vary according to circumstances.

         5. If the body thrown out be within sustaining distance of the main corps, a very small
reserve will be sufficient for each company, whose duty it shall be to fill vacant places, furnish
the line with cartridges, relieve the fatigued, and serve as a rallying point for the skirmishers.

         6. If the main corps be at a considerable distance, besides the company reserves, another
reserve will be required, composed of entire companies, which will be employed to sustain and
reinforce such parts of the line as may be warmly attacked; this reserve should be strong enough
to relieve at least half the companies deployed as skirmishers.

         7. The reserves should be placed behind the centre of the line of skirmishers, the
company reserves at one hundred and fifty, and the principal reserve at four hundred paces. This
rule, however, is not invariable. The reserves, while holding themselves within sustaining
distance of the line, should be, as much as possible, in position to afford each other mutual
protection, and must carefully profit by any accidents of the ground to conceal themselves from
the view of the enemy, and to shelter themselves from his fire.

         8. The movements of skirmishers will be executed in quick, or double quick time. The
run will be resorted to only in cases of urgent necessity.

         9. Skirmishers will be permitted to carry their pieces in the manner most convenient to
them.

         10. The movements will be habitually indicated by the sounds of the bugle.
         11. The officers, and, if necessary, the non-commissioned officers, will repeat, and cause
the commands to be executed, as soon as they are given; but to avoid mistakes, when the signals
are employed, they will wait until the last bugle note is sounded before commencing the
movement.
         12. When skirmishers are ordered to move rapidly, the officers and non-commissioned
officers will see that the men economize their strength, keep cool, and profit by all the
advantages which the ground may offer for cover. It is only by this continual watchfulness on
the part of all grades, that a line of skirmishers can attain success.
         13. This instruction will be divided into five articles, and subdivided as follows:
                       INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  112

                            ARTICLE I.

1. To deploy forward.
2. To deploy by the flank.
3. To extend intervals.
4. To close intervals.
5. To relieve skirmishers.

                            ARTICLE II.

1. To advance in line.
2. To retreat in line.
3. To change direction.
4. To march by the flank.

                            ARTICLE III.

1. To fire at a halt.
2. To fire marching.

                            ARTICLE IV.

1. The rally.
2. To form column to march in any direction.
3. The assembly.

                                        ARTICLE V.

         1. To deploy a battalion as skirmishers.
         2. To rally the battalion deployed as skirmishers.

         14. In the first four articles, it is supposed that the movements are executed by a company
deployed as skirmishers, on a front equal to that of the battalion in order of battle. In the fifth
article, it is supposed that each company of the battalion, being deployed as skirmishers,
occupies a front of one hundred paces. From these two examples, rules ma y be deduced for all
cases, whatever may be the numerical strength of the skirmishers, and the extent of ground they
ought to occupy.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

                                             DEPLOYMENTS.

15. A company may be deployed as skirmishers in two ways; forward, and by the flank.
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  113
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  114

         16. The deployment forward will be adopted when the company is behind the line on
which it is to be established as skirmishers: it will be deployed by the flank, when it finds itself
already on that line.

         17. Whenever a company is to be deployed as skirmishers, it will be divided into two
platoons, and each platoon will be subdivided into two sections; the comrades in battle, forming
groups of four men, will be careful to know and to sustain each other. The captain will assure
himself that the files in the centre of each platoon and section are designated.

         18. A company may be deployed as skirmishers on its right, left, or centre file, or on any
other named file whatsoever. In this manner, skirmishers may be thrown forward with the
greatest possible rapidity on any ground they may be required to occupy.

         19. A chain of skirmishers ought generally to preserve their alignment, but no advantages
which the ground may present should be sacrificed to attain this regularity.

         20. The interval between skirmishers depends on the extent of ground to be covered; but
in general, it is not proper that the groups of four men should be removed more than forty paces
from each other. The habitual distance between men of the same group in open grounds will be
five paces; in no case will they lose sight of each other.

         21. The front to be occupied to cover a battalion comprehends its front and the half of
each interval which separates it from the battalion on its right and left. If a line, whose wings are
not supported, should be covered by skirmishers, it will be necessary either to protect the flanks
with skirmishers, or to extend them in front of the line so far beyond the wings as effectually to
oppose any attempt which might be made by the enemy's skirmishers to disturb the flanks.

                                            To deploy forward.

         22. A company being at a halt or in march, when the captain shall wish to deploy it
forward on the left file of the first platoon, holding the second platoon in reserve, he will
command:

 1. First platoon--as skirmishers. 2. On the left file--take intervals. 3. MARCH (or
                                         double quick--MARCH).

         23. At the first command, the second and third lieutenants will place themselves rapidly
two paces behind the centres of the right and left sections of the first platoon; the fifth sergeant
will move one pace in front of the centre of the first platoon, and will place himself between the
two sections in the front-rank as soon as the movement begins; the fourth sergeant will place
himself on the left of the front-rank of the same platoon, as soon as he can pass. The captain will
indicate to this sergeant the point on which he wishes him to direct his march. The first
lieutenant, placing himself before the centre of the second platoon, will command:

                                 Second platoon backward--MARCH.

         24. At this comma nd, the second platoon will step three paces to the rear, so as to
unmask the flank of the first platoon. It will then be halted by its chief, and the second sergeant
will place himself on the left, and the third sergeant on the right flank of this platoon. If the
company is on the march, the second platoon will be halted at the first command.
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  115

         25. At the command march, the left group of four men, conducted by the fourth sergeant,
will direct itself on the point indicated; all the other groups of fours throwing forward briskly the
left shoulder, will move diagonally to the front in double quick time, so as to gain to the right the
space of twenty paces, which shall be the distance between each group and that immediately on
its left. When the second group from the left shall arrive on a line with, and twenty paces from
the first, it will march straight to the front, conforming to the gait and direction of the first,
keeping constantly on the same alignment and at twenty paces from it. The third group, and all
the others, will conform to what has just been prescribed for the second; they will arrive
successively on the line. The right guide will arrive with the last group.

         26. The left guide having reached the point where the left of the line should rest, the
captain will command the skirmishers to halt; the men composing each group of fours will then
immediately deploy at five paces from each other, and to the right and left of the front-rank man
of the even file in each group, the rear-rank men placing themselves on the left of their file
leaders. If tiny groups be not in line at the command halt, they will move up rapidly, conforming
to what has just been prescribed.

         27. If, during the deployment, the line should be fired upon by the enemy, the captain
may cause the groups of fours to deploy, as they gain their proper distances.

         28. The line being formed, the non-commissioned officers on the right, left, and centre,
of the platoon, will place themselves ten paces in rear of the line, and opposite the positions they
respectively occupied. The chiefs of sections will promptly rectify any irregularities, and then
place themselves twenty-five or thirty paces in rear of the centre of their sections, each having
with him four men taken from the reserve, and also a bugler, who will repeat, if necessary, the
signals sounded by the captain.

         29. Skirmishers should be particularly instructed to take advantage of any cover which
the ground may offer, and should lie flat on the ground whenever such a movement is necessary
to protect them from the fire of the enemy. Regularity in the alignment should yield to his
important advantage.

         30. When the movement begins, the first lieutenant will face the second platoon about,
and march it promptly, and by the shortest line, to about one hundred and fifty paces in rear of
the centre of the line. He will hold it always at this distance, unless ordered to the contrary.

         31. The reserve will conform itself to all the movements of the line. This rule is general.
         32. Light troops will carry their bayonets habitually in the scabbard, and this rule applies
equally to the skirmishers and the reserve; whenever bayonets are required to be fixed, a
particular signal will be given. The captain will give a general superintendence to the whole
deployment, and then promptly place himself about eight paces in rear of the centre of the line.
He will have with him a bugler and four men taken from the reserve.
         33. The deployment may be made on the right or the centre of the platoon, by the same
commands, substituting the indication right or center, for that of left file.
         34. The deployment on the right or the centre will be made according to the principles
prescribed above; in this latter case, the centre of the platoon will be marked by the right group
of fours in the second section; the fifth sergeant will place himself on the right of this group, and
serve as the guide of the platoon during the deployment.
         35. In whatever manner the deployment be made on the right, left, centre (or any file),
the men in each group of fours will habitually deploy at five paces from each other, and upon the
front-rank man of the even-numbered file. The deployments will habitually be made at twenty
paces interval; but if a greater interval be required, it will be indicated in the command.
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  116

         36. If a company be thrown out as skirmishers so near the main body as to render a
reserve unnecessary, the entire company will be extended in the same manner, and according to
the same principles, as for the deployment of a platoon. In this case, the third lieutenant will
command the fourth section, and a non-commissioned officer designated for that purpose, the
second section; the fifth sergeant will act as centre guide; the file closers will place themselves
ten paces in rear of the line, and opposite their places in line of battle. The first and second
lieutenant will each have a bugler near him.

                                         To deploy by the flank.

         37. The company being at a halt, when the captain shall wish to deploy it by the flank,
holding the first platoon in reserve, he will command:

        1. Second platoon--as skirmishers. 2. By the right flank--take intervals.
                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         38. At the first command, the first and third lieutenants will place themselves,
respectively, two paces behind the centres of the first and second sections of the second platoon;
the fifth sergeant will place himself one pace in front of the centre of the second platoon; the
third sergeant, as soon as be can pass, will place himself on the right of the front-rank of the
same platoon. The captain will indicate to him the point on which he wishes him to direct his
march. The chief of the first platoon will execute what has been prescribed for the chief of the
second platoon, Nos. 23 and 24. The fourth sergeant will place himself on the left flank of the
reserve, the first sergeant will remain on the right flank.

         39. At the second command, the first and third lieutenants will place themselves two
paces behind the left group of their respective sections.

         40. At the command march, the second platoon will face to the right, and commence the
movement; the left group of fours will stand fast, but will deploy as soon as there is room on its
right, conforming to what has been prescribed No. 26; the third sergeant will place himself on the
left of the right group, to conduct it; the second group will halt at twenty paces from the one on
its left, the third group at twenty pace from the second, and so on to the right. As the groups halt,
they will face to the enemy, and deploy, as has been explained for the left group.

         41. The chiefs of sections will pay particular attention to the successive deployments of
the groups, keeping near the group about to halt, so as to rectify any errors which may be
committed. When the deployment is completed, they will place themselves thirty paces in rear
of the centre of their sections, as has been heretofore prescribed. The non-commissioned officers
will also place themselves as previously indicated.

         42. As soon as the movement commences, the chief of the first platoon, causing it to face
about, will move it as indicated No. 30.

         43. The deployment may be made by the left flank according to the same principles,
substituting left flank for right flank.

         44. If the captain should wish to deploy the company upon the centre of one of the
platoons he will command:
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  117
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  118

 1. Second platoon--as skirmishers. 2. By the right and left flanks--take intervals.
                               3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         45. At the first command, the officers and non-commissioned officers will conform to
what has been prescribed No. 38.

         46. At the second command, the first lieutenant will place himself behind the left group
of the right section of the second platoon, the third lieutenant behind the right group of the left
section of the same platoon.

         47. At the command march, the right section will face to the right, the left section will
face to the left, the group on the right of this latter section will stand fast. The two sections will
move off in opposite directions: the third sergeant will place himself on the left of the right file to
conduct it, the second sergeant on the right of the left file. The two groups nearest that which
stands fast, will each halt at twenty paces from this group, and each of the other groups will halt
at twenty paces from the group which is in the rear of it. Each group will deploy as heretofore
prescribed No. 40.

         48. The first and third lieutenants will direct the movement, holding themselves always
abreast of the group which is about to halt.

         49. The captain can cause the deployment to be made on any named group whatsoever;
in this case, the fifth sergeant will place himself before the group indicated, and the deployment
will be made according to the principles heretofore prescribed.

         50. The entire company may be also deployed, according to the same principles.

                                           To extend intervals.

         51. This movement, which is employed to extend a line of skirmishers, will be executed
according to the principles prescribed for deployments.

         52. If it be supposed that the line of skirmishers is at a halt, and that the captain wishes to
extend it to the left he will command:

 1. By the left flank (so many paces) extend intervals. 2. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).

         53. At the command march, the group on the right will stand fast, all the other groups
will face to the left, and each group will extend its interval to the prescribed distance by the
means indicated No. 40.

         54. The men of the same group will continue to preserve between each other the distance
of five paces, unless the nature of the ground should render it necessary that they should close
nearer, in order to keep in sight of each other. The intervals refer to the spaces between the
groups, and not to the distances between the men in each group. The intervals will be taken from
the right or left man of the neighboring group.

         55. If the line of skirmishers be marching to the front, and the captain should wish to
extend it to the right, he will command:

1. On the left group (so many paces) extend intervals. 2. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  119
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  120

         56. The left group, conducted by the guide, will continue to march on the point of
direction: the other groups throwing forward the left shoulder, and taking the double quick step,
will open their intervals to the prescribed distance, by the means indicated No. 25, conforming
also to what is prescribed No. 54.

         57. Intervals may be extended on the right, centre, (or any group) of the line, according to
the same principles.

         58. If in extending intervals, it be intended that one company or platoon should occupy a
line which had been previously occupied by two, the men of the company or platoon which is to
retire, will fall successively to the rear as they are relieved by the extension of the intervals.

                                            To close intervals.

         59. This movement, like that of opening intervals, will be executed according to the
principles prescribed for the deployments.

         60. If the line of skirmishers be halted, and the captain should wish to close intervals to
the left, he will command:

  1. By the left flank (so many paces) close intervals. 2. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).

         61. At the command march, the left group will stand fast, the other groups will face to
the left and close to the prescribed distance, each group facing to the enemy as it attains its
proper distance.

         62. If the line be marching to the front, the captain will command:

 1. On the left group (so many paces) close intervals. 2. MARCH (or double quick--
                                                    MARCH).

         63. The left group, conducted by the guide, will continue to move on in the direction
previously indicated; the other groups, advancing the right shoulder, will close to the left, until
the intervals are reduced to the prescribed distance.

         64. Intervals may be closed on the right, centre (or any group) according to the same
principles.

         65. When intervals are to be closed up, in order to reinforce a line of skirmishers, so as to
cause two companies to cover the ground which had been previously occupied by one, the new
company will deploy so as to finish its movement at twenty paces in rear of the line it is to
occupy, and the men will successively move upon that line, as they shall be unmasked by the
men of the old company. The reserves of the two companies will unite behind the centre of the
line.

                      To relieve a company deployed as skirmishers.

         66. When a company of skirmishers is to be relieved, the captain will be advised of the
intention, which he will immediately communicate to his first and second lieutenants.
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  121
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  122

         67. The new company will execute its deployment forward, so as to finish the movement
at about twenty paces in rear of the line.

         68. Arrived at this distance, the men of the new company, by command of their captain
will advance rapidly a few paces beyond the old line, and halt; the new line being established,
the old company will assemble on its reserve, taking care not to get into groups of fours until
they are beyond the fire of the enemy.

         69. If the skirmishers to be relieved are marching in retreat, the company thrown out to
relieve them will deploy by the flank, as prescribed No. 38, and following. The old skirmishers
will continue to retire with order, and having passed the new line, they will form upon the
reserve.

                                                 ARTICLE II.

                                               TO ADVANCE.

                          To advance in line, and to retreat in line.

         70. When a platoon or a company deployed as skirmishers is marching by the front, the
guide will be habitually in the centre. No particular indication to this effect need given in the
commands, but if on the contrary it be intended that the directing guide should be on the right, or
left, the command guide right, or guide left, will be given immediately after that of forward.

         71. The captain, wishing the line of skirmishers to advance, will command:

                      1. Forward. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         72. This command will be repeated with the greatest rapidity by the chiefs of sections,
and in case of need, by the sergeants. This rule is general, whether the skirmishers march by the
front or by the flank.

         73. At the first command, the three sergeants will move briskly on the line, the first on
the right, the second on the left, and the third in the centre.

         74. At the command march, the line will move to the front, the guide charged with the
direction will move on the point indicated to him, the skirmishers will hold themselves aligned
on this guide, and preserve their intervals toward him.

         75. The chiefs of sections will march immediately behind their sections, so as to direct
their movements.

         76. The captain will give a general superintendence to the movement.
         77. When he shall wish to halt the skirmishers, he will command:

                                                          HALT.

         78. At this command, briskly repeated, the line will halt. The chiefs of sections will
promptly rectify any irregularity in the alignment and intervals, and after taking every possible
advantage which the ground may offer for protecting the men, they, with the three sergeants in
the line, will retire to their proper places in rear.

         79. The captain wishing to march the skirmishers in retreat, will command:
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  123

                     1. In retreat. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         80. At the first command, the three sergeants will move on the line as prescribed No. 73.
         81. At the command march, the skirmishers will face about individually, and march to
the rear, conforming to the principles prescribed No. 74.
         82. The officers and sergeants will use every exertion to preserve order.
         83. To halt the skirmishers, marching in retreat, the captain will command:

                                                      HALT.

         84. At this command the skirmishers will halt, and immediately face to the front.
         85. The chiefs of sections and the three guides will each conform himself to what is
prescribed No. 78.

                                          To change direction.

         86. If the commander of a line of skirmishers shall wish to cause it to change direction to
the right, he will command:

                    1. Right wheel. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         87. At the command march, the right guide will mark time in his place; the left guide will
move in a circle to the right, and that he may properly regulate his movements, will occasionally
cast his eyes to the right, so as to observe the direction of the line, and the nature of the ground to
be passed over. The centre guide will also march in a circle to the right, and in order to conform
his movements to the general direction, will take care that his steps are only half the length of the
steps of the guide on the left.

         88. The skirmishers will regulate the length of their steps by their distance from the
marching flank, being less as they approach the pivot, and greater as they are removed from it;
they will often look to the marching flank, so as to preserve the direction and their intervals.

         89. When the commander of the line shall wish to resume the direct march, he will
command:

                                         1. Forward. 2. MARCH.

         90. At the command march, the line will cease to wheel, and the skirmishers will move
direct to the front; the centre guide will march on the point which will be indicated to him.

         91. If the captain should wish to halt the line, in place of moving it to the front, he will
command:

                                                      HALT.

         92. At this command, the line will halt.
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  124

         93. A change of direction to the left will be made according to the same principles, and
by inverse means.

         94. A line of skirmishers marching in retreat will change direction by the same means,
and by the same commands, as a line marching in advance; for example, if the captain should
wish to refuse his left, now become the right, he will command: 1. Left wheel. 2. MARCH.
At the command halt, the skirmishers will face to the enemy.

         95. But if, instead of halting the line, the captain should wish to continue to march it in
retreat, he will, when he judges the line has wheeled sufficiently, command:

                                         1. In retreat. 2. MARCH.

                                         To march by the flank.

         96. The captain, wishing the skirmishers to march by the right flank, will command:

                1. By the right flank. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         97. At the first command, the three sergeants will place themselves on the line.
         98. At the command march, the skirmishers will face to the right and move off; the right
guide will place himself by the side of the leading man on the right to conduct him, and will
march on the point indicated; each skirmisher will take care to follow exactly in the direction of
the one immediately preceding him, and to preserve his distance.
         99. The skirmishers may be marched by the left flank, according to the same principles,
and by the same commands, substituting left for right; the left guide will place himself by the
side of the leading man to conduct him.
         100. If the skirmishers be marching by the flank, and the captain should wish to halt
them, he will command:

                                                      HALT.

         101. At this command, the skirmishers will halt and face to the enemy. The officers and
sergeants will conform to what has been prescribed No. 78.

         102. The reserve should execute all the movements of the line, and be held always about
one hundred and fifty paces from it, so as to be in position to second its operations.

         103. When the chief of the reserve shall wish to march it in advance, he will command:
1. Platoon forward. 2. Guide left. 3. MARCH. If he should wish to march it in retreat, he
will command: 1. In retreat. 2. MARCH. 3. Guide right. At the command halt, it will
reface to the enemy.

         104. The men should be made to understand that the signals or commands, such as
forward, means that the skirmishers shall march on the enemy; in retreat, that they shall retire,
and to the right or left flank, that the men must face to the right or left, whatever may be their
position.

         105. If the skirmishers be marching by the flank, and the captain should wish to change
direction to the right (or left), he will command: 1. By file right (or left). 2. MARCH. These
movements will also be executed by the signals Nos. 14 and 15.
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  125

                                                ARTICLE III.

                                               THE FIRINGS.

         106. Skirmishers will fire either at a halt or marching.

                                              To fire at a halt.

         107. To cause this fire to be executed, the captain will command:

                                           Commence--FIRING.

         108. At this command, briskly repeated, the men of the front-rank will commence firing;
they will reload rapidly, and hold themselves in readiness to fire again. During this time the men
of the rear-rank will come to a ready, and as soon as their respective file leaders have loaded they
will also fire and reload. The men of each file will thus continue the firing, conforming to this
principle, that the one or the other shall always have his piece loaded.

         109. Light troops should be always calm, so as to aim with accuracy; they should,
moreover, endeavor to estimate correctly the distances between themselves and the enemy to be
hit, and thus be enabled to deliver their fire with the greater certainty of success.

         110. Skirmishers will not remain in the same place whilst reloading, unless protected by
accidents in the ground.

                                             To fire marching.

         111. This fire will be executed by the same commands as the fire at a halt.
         112. At the command commence firing, if the line be advancing, the front-rank man of
every file will halt, fire, and reload before throwing himself forward. The rear-rank man of the
same file will continue to march, and after passing ten or twelve paces beyond his front-rank
man, will halt, come to a ready, select his object, and fire when his front-rank man has loaded;
the fire will thus continue to be executed by each file; the skirmishers will keep united, and
endeavor, as much as possible, to preserve the general direction of the alignment.
         113. If the line be marching in retreat, at the command commence firing, the front-rank
man of every file will halt, face to the enemy, fire, and then reload whilst moving to the rear; the
rear-rank man of the same file will continue to march, and halt ten or twelve paces beyond his
front-rank man, face about, come to a ready, and fire, when his front-rank man has passed him in
retreat and loaded; after which, he will move to the rear reloading whilst so moving. The front-
rank man in his turn, after marching briskly to the rear, will halt at ten or twelve paces from the
rear-rank, face to the enemy, finish loading his piece and fire, conforming to what has just been
prescribed for the rear-rank man; the firing will thus be continued.
         114. If the company be marching by the right flank, at the command, commence firing,
the front-rank man of every file will face to the enemy, step one pace forward, halt, and fire; the
rear-rank man will continue to move forward. As soon as the front-rank man has fired, he will
place himself briskly behind his rear-rank man and reload whilst marching. When he has loaded,
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  126

the rear-rank man will, in his turn, face to the enemy, step one pace forward halt and fire, and
returning to the ranks, will place himself behind his front-rank man; the latter, in his turn, will act
in the same manner, observing the same principles. At the command, cease--firing, the men of
the rear-rank will retake their original positions, if not already there.

         115. If the company be marching by the left flank, the fire will be executed according to

the same principles, but in this case it will be the rear-rank man who will fire first.

         116. The following rules will be observed in the cases to which they apply.
         117. If the line be firing at a halt, or whilst marching by the flank, at the command
forward--MARCH it will be the men whose pieces are loaded, without regard to the particular
rank to which they belong, who will move to the front. Those men whose pieces have been
discharged will remain in their places to load them before moving forward, and the firing will be

continued agreeably to the principles prescribed No. 112.
         118. If the line be firing either at a halt, advancing, or whilst marching by the flank, at the

command, In retreat--MARCH, the men whose pieces are loaded will remain faced to the
enemy, and will fire in this position; the men whose pieces are discharged will retreat loading

them, and the fire will be continued agreeably to the principles prescribed No. 113.

         119. If the line of skirmishers be firing either at a halt, advancing, or in retreat, at the
command, By the right (or left) flank--MARCH, the men whose pieces are loaded will step
one pace out of the general alignment, face to the enemy, and fire in this position; the men whose
pieces are unloaded will face to the right (or left) and march in the direction indicated. The men
who stepped out of the ranks will place themselves, immediately after firing, upon the general
direction, and in rear of their front or rear-rank men, as the case may be. The fire will continued

according to the principles prescribed No. 114.
         120. Skirmishers will be habituated to load their pieces whilst marching; but they will be

enjoined to halt always an instant, when in the act of charging cartridge, and priming.
         121. They should be practised to fire and load kneeling, lying down, and sitting, and

much liberty should be allowed in these exercises, in order that they may be executed in the
manner found to be most convenient. Skirmishers should be cautioned not to forget that, in
whatever position they may load, it is important that the piece should be placed upright before

ramming, in order that the entire charge of powder ma y reach the bottom of the bore.
         122. In commencing the fire, the men of the same rank should not all fire at once, and the

men of the same file should be particular that one or the other of them be always loaded.
         123. In retreating, the officer commanding the skirmishers should seize on every

advantage which the ground may present, for arresting the enemy as long as possible.
         124. At the signal to cease--firing, the captain, will see that the order is promptly

obeyed; but the men who may not be loaded, will load. If the line be marching, it will continue
the movement; but the man of each file who happens to be in front, will wait until the man in the

rear shall be abreast with him.
         125. If a line of skirmishers be firing advancing, at the command halt, the line will re-

form upon the skirmishers who are in front; when the line is retreating, upon the skirmishers who

are in the rear.
         126. Officers should watch with the greatest possible vigilance over a line of skirmishers;

in battle, they should neither carry a rifle or fowling piece. In all the firings, they, as well as the
sergeants, should see that order and silence are preserved, and that the skirmishers do not wander
imprudently; they should especially caution them to be calm and collected; not to fire until they
distinctly perceive the objects at which they aim, and are sure that those objects are within proper
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  127

range. Skirmishers should take advantage promptly, and with intelligence, of all shelter, and of
all accidents of the ground, to conceal themselves from the view of the enemy, and to protect
themselves from his fire. It may often happen, that intervals are momentarily lost when several
men near each other find a common shelter; but when they quit this position, they should
immediately resume their intervals and their places in line, so that they may not, by crowding,
needlessly expose themselves to the fire of the enemy.

                                                ARTICLE IV.

                                                THE RALLY.

                                              To form column.

         127. A company deployed as skirmishers, is rallied in order to oppose the enemy with
better success; the rallies are made at a run, and with bayonets fixed; when ordered to rally, the
skirmishers fix bayonets without command.

         128. There are several ways of rallying, which the chief of the line will adopt according
to circumstances.

         129. If the line, marching or at a halt, be merely disturbed by scattered horsemen, it will
not be necessary to fall back on the reserve, but the captain will cause bayonets to be fixed. If
the horsemen should, however, advance to charge the skirmishers, the captain will command,
rally by fours. The line will halt, if marching, and the four men of each group will execute this
rally in the following manner: the front-rank man of the even-numbered file will take the
position of guard against cavalry; the rear-rank man of the odd-numbered file will also take the
position of guard against cavalry, turning his back to him, his right foot thirteen inches from the
right foot of the former and parallel to it; the front-rank man of the odd file, and the rear-rank
man of the even file, will also place themselves back to back, taking a like position, and between
the two men already established, facing to the right and left; the right feet of the four men will be
brought together, forming a square, and serving for mutual support. The four men in each group
will come to a ready, fire as occasion may offer, and load without moving their feet.

         130. The captain and chiefs of sections will each cause the four men who constitute his
guard to form square, the men separating so as to enable him and the bugler to place themselves
in the centre. The three sergeants will each promptly place himself in the group nearest him in
the line of skirmishers.

         131. If the captain desires again to deploy the groups, he will command, deploy as
skirmishers; at which each group will deploy as prescribed No. 26.

         132. Whenever the captain shall judge these squares too weak, but should wish to hold
his position by strengthening his line, he will command:

                                              Rally by sections.

         133. At this command, the chiefs of sections will move rapidly on the centre group of
their respective sections, or on any other interior group whose position might offer a shelter, or
other particular advantage; the skirmishers will collect rapidly at a run on this group, and without
distinction of numbers. The men composing the group on which the formation is made, will
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  128

immediately form square, as heretofore explained, and elevate their pieces, the bayonets
uppermost, in order to indicate the point on which the rally is to be made. The other skirmishers,
as they arrive will occupy and fill the open angular spaces between these four men, and
successively rally around this first nucleus, and in such manner as to form rapidly a compact
circle. The skirmishers will take, as they arrive, the position of charge bayonet, the point of the
bayonet more elevated, and will cock their pieces in this position. The movement concluded, the
two exterior ranks will fire as occasion may offer, and load without moving their feet.

         134. The captain will move rapidly with his guard, wherever he may judge his presence
most necessary.

         135. The officers and sergeants will be particular to observe that the rally is made in
silence, and with promptitude and order; that some pieces in each of their subdivisions be at all
times loaded and that the fire is directed on those points only where it will be most effective.

         136. If the reserve should be threatened, it will form into a circle around its chief.
         137. If the captain desires again to deploy the sections he will command: form sections,
at this, the chief of each will dress his section on that file of the circle which is faced towards the
enemy, the men taking their proper places. The sections will then be deployed forward, or by the
flanks, on any file or group the captain may wish as indicated No. 22, and following, and No. 37
and following.
         138. If the captain, or commander of a line skirmishers, formed of many platoons, should
judge that the rally by section does not offer sufficient resistance, he will cause the rally by
platoons to be executed, and for this purpose, will command:

                                              Rally by platoons.

         139. This movement will be executed according to the same principles, and by the same
means, as the rally by sections. The chiefs of platoon will conform to what has been prescribed
for the chiefs of section.

         140. If the captain, or commander of the line of skirmishers, desires again to deploy the
platoons, he will command: form platoons, and the movement will be executed as prescribed
No. 137.

         141. The captain wishing to rally the skirmishers on the reserve, will command:

                                            Rally on the reserve.

         142. At this command, the captain will move briskly on the reserve; the officer who
commands it will take immediate steps to form square; for this purpose, he will cause the half
sections on the flanks to be thrown perpendicularly to the rear; he will order the men to come to
a ready.
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  129
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  130

         143. The skirmishers of each section, taking the run, will form rapidly into groups, and
upon that man of each group who is nearest the centre of the section. These groups will direct
themselves diagonally toward each other, and in such manner as to form into sections with the
greatest possible rapidity while moving to the rear; the officers and sergeants will see that this
formation is made in proper order, and the chiefs will direct their sections upon the reserve,
taking care to unmask it to the right and left. As the skirmishers arrive they will continue and
complete the formation of the square begun by the reserve, closing in rapidly upon the latter,
without regard to their places in line; they will come to a ready without command, and fire upon
the enemy; which will also be done by the reserve as soon as it is unmasked by the skirmishers.

         144. If a section should be closely pressed by cavalry while retreating, its chief will
command, halt; at this command, the men will form rapidly into a compact circle around the
officer, who will re-form his section and resume the march, the moment he can do so with safety.

         145. The formation of the square in a prompt and efficient manner requires coolness and
activity on the part of both officers and sergeants.

         146. The captain will also profit by every moment of respite which the enemy's cavalry
may leave him; as soon as he can, he will endeavor to place himself beyond the reach of their
charges, either by gaining a position where he may defend himself with advantage, or by
returning to the corps to which he belongs. For this purpose, being in square, he will cause the
company to break into column by platoons at half distance to this effect he will command:

                                      1. Form column. 2. MARCH.

         147. At the command march, each platoon will dress on its centre, and the platoon which
was facing to the rear will face about without command. The guides will place themselves on
the right and left of their respective platoons, those of the second platoon will place themselves
at half distance from those of the first, counting from the rear-rank. These dispositions being
made, the captain can move the column in whatever direction he may judge proper.

         148. If he wishes to march it in retreat, he will command:

                     1. In retreat. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         149. At the command march, the column, will immediately face by the rear-rank (the file
closers of the first platoon retaining their position), and move off in the opposite direction. As
soon as the column is in motion, the captain will command:

                                           3. Guide right (or left).

         150. He will indicate the direction to the leading guide: the guides will march at their
proper distances, and the men will keep aligned.

         151. If again threatened by cavalry, the captain will command:

                                       1. Form square. 2. MARCH.

         152. At the command march, the column will halt; the first platoon will face about
briskly, and the outer half-sections of each platoon will be thrown perpendicularly to the rear, so
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  131

as to form the second and third fronts of the square. The officers and sergeants will promptly
rectify any irregularities which may be committed.

         153. If he should wish to march the column in advance, the captain will command:

                                      1. Form column. 2. MARCH.

         154. Which will be executed as prescribed No. 147.
         155. The column being formed, the captain will command:

     1. Forward. 2. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH). 3. Guide left (or right).

         156. At the second command, the column will move forward, and at the third command,
the men will take the touch of elbows to the side of the guide.

         157. If the captain should wish the column to gain ground to the right or left, he will do
so by rapid wheels to the side opposite the guide, and for this purpose, will change the guide
whenever it may be necessary.

         158. If a company be in column by platoon, at half distance, right in front, the captain
can deploy the first platoon as skirmishers by the means already explained; but if it should be his
wish to deploy the second platoon forward on the centre file, leaving the first platoon in reserve,
he will command:

1. Second platoon--as skirmishers. 2. On the center file--take intervals. 3. MARCH
                                       (or double quick--MARCH).

         159. At the first command, the chief of the first platoon will caution his platoon to stand
fast; the chiefs of sections of the second platoon will place themselves before the centre of their
sections: the fifth sergeant will place himself one pace in front of the centre of the second
platoon.

         160. At the second command, the chief of the right section, second platoon, will
command: Section right face; the chief of the left section: Section left face.

         161. At the command march, these sections will move off briskly in opposite directions,
and having unmasked the first platoon, the chiefs of sections will respectively command: By the
left flank--MARCH, and By the right flank--MARCH; and as soon as these sections
arrive on the alignment of the first platoon, they will command: As skirmishers--MARCH.
The groups will then deploy according to prescribed principles, on the right group of the left
section, which will be directed by the fifth sergeant on the point indicated.

         162. If the captain should wish the deployment made by the flank, the second platoon
will be moved to the front by the means above stated, and halted after passing some steps beyond
the alignment of the first platoon; the deployment will then be made by the flank according to the
principles prescribed.

                                             THE ASSEMBLY.

         163. A company deployed as skirmishers will be assembled when there is no longer
danger of its being disturbed; the assembly will be made habitually in quick time.
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  132

         164. The captain wishing to assemble the skirmishers on the reserve, will command:

                                          Assemble on the reserve.

         165. At this command, the skirmishers will assemble by groups of fours; the front-rank
men will place themselves behind their rear-rank men; and each group of fours will direct itself
on the reserve, where each will take its proper place in the ranks. When the company is re-
formed, it will rejoin the battalion to which it belongs.

         166. It may be also proper to assemble the skirmishers on the centre, or on the right or
left of the line, either marching or at a halt.

         167. If the captain should wish to assemble them on the centre while marching, he will
command:

                                          Assemble on the centre.

         168. At this command, the centre guide will continue to march directly to the front on the
point indicated: the front-rank man of the directing file will follow the guide, and be covered by
his rear-rank man; the other two comrades of this group, and likewise those on their left, will
march diagonally, advancing the left shoulder and accelerating the gait, so as to re-form the
groups while drawing nearer and nearer the directing file; the men of the right section will unite
in the same manner into groups, and then upon the directing file, throwing forward the right
shoulder. As they successively unite on the centre, the men will bring their pieces to the right
shoulder.

         169. To assemble on the right, left (or any file) will be executed according to the same
principles.

         170. The assembly of a line marching in retreat will also be executed according to the
same principles, the front-rank men marching behind their rear-rank men.

         171. To assemble the line of skirmishers at a halt, and on the line they occupy, the
captain will give the same commands; the skirmishers will face to the right or left, according as
they should march by the right or left flank, re-form the groups while marching, and thus arrive
on the file which served as the point of formation. As they successively arrive, the skirmishers
will support arms.

                                                 ARTICLE V.

     TO DEPLOY A BATTALION AS SKIRMISHERS AND TO RALLY THE
                                                BATTALION.

                            To deploy the battalion as skirmishers.
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  133
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  134

         172. A battalion being in line of battle, if the commander should wish to deploy it on the
right of the sixth company, holding the three right companies in reserve, be will signify his
intention to the lieutenant-colonel and adjutant, and also to the senior and junior majors, one of
whom will be directed to take charge of the battalion reserve. He will point out to the lieutenant-
colonel the direction he wishes to give the line, as well as the point where he wishes the right of
the sixth company to rest, and to the commander of the reserve the place he may wish it
established.

         173. The lieutenant-colonel will move rapidly in front of the right of the sixth company,
and the adjutant in front of the left of the same company. The commander of the reserve will
dispose of it in the manner to be hereinafter indicated.

         174. The colonel will command:

1. First (or second) platoons--as skirmishers. 2. On the right of the sixth company--
                    take intervals. 3. MARCH (or double quick--MARCH).

         175. At the second command, the captains of the fifth and sixth companies will prepare
to deploy the first platoons of their respective companies, the sixth on its right, the fifth on its
left.

         176. The captain of the fourth company will face it to the right, and the captains of the
seventh and eighth companies will face their respective companies to the left.

         177. At the command march, the movement will commence. The platoons of the fifth
and sixth companies will deploy forward; the right guide of the sixth will march on the point
which will be indicated to him by the lieutenant-colonel.

         178. The company which has faced to the right, and also the companies which have faced
to the left, will march straight-forward. The fourth company will take an interval of one hundred
paces, counting from the left of the fifth, and its chief will deploy its first platoon on its left file.
The seventh and eight companies will each take an interval of one hundred paces, counting from
the right file of the company, which is immediately on its right; and the chiefs of these
companies will afterward deploy their first platoons on the right file.

         179. The guides who conduct the files on which the deployment is made, should be
careful to direct themselves toward the outer man of the neighboring company, already deployed
as skirmishers; or if the company has not finished its deployment, they will judge carefully the
distance which may still be required to place all these files in line and will then march on the
point thus marked out. The companies as they arrive on the line, will align themselves on those
already deployed.

         180. The lieutenant-colonel and adjutant will follow the deployment, the one on the right,
the other on the left; the movement concluded, they will place themselves near the colonel. The
major, not in command of the reserve, will also be near the colonel. In case the companies of
skirmishers constitute a part of the battalion reserve, the junior major will be placed in command.

         181. The reserves of the companies will be established in echelon in the following
manner: the reserve of the sixth company will be placed one hundred and fifty paces in rear of
the right of this company; the reserves of the fourth and fifth companies, united, opposite the
centre of their line of skirmishers, and thirty paces in advance of the reserve of the sixth
company; the reserves of the seventh and eighth companies, also united, opposite the centre of
their line of skirmishers, and thirty paces farther to the rear than the reserve of the sixth
company.
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  135

         182. The major commanding the companies composing the reserve, on receiving an order
from the colonel to that effect, will march these companies thirty paces to the rear, and will then
deploy them into column by company, at half distance; after which, he will conduct the column
to the point which shall have been indicated to him.

         183. The colonel will have a general superintendence of the movement; and when it is
finished, will move to a point in rear of the line, whence his view may best embrace all the parts,
in order to direct their movements.

         184. If, instead of deploying forward, it be desired to deploy by the flank, the sixth and
fifth companies will be moved to the front ten or twelve paces, halted, and deployed by the flank
the one on the right, the other on the left file, by the means already indicated. Each of the other
companies will be marched by the flank; and soon as the last file of the company, next toward
the direction, shall have taken its interval, it will be moved on the line established by the fifth
and sixth companies, halted and deployed.

         185. In the preceding example, it has been supposed that the battalion was in order of
battle; but if in column, it would be deployed skirmishers by the same commands and according
to the same principles.

         186. If the deployment is to be made forward, the directing company as soon as it is
unmasked, will be moved ten or twelve paces in front of the head of the column, and will be then
deployed on the file indicated. Each of the other companies will take its interval to the right or
left and deploy as soon as it is taken.

         187. If the deployment is to be made by the flank, the directing company will be moved
in the same manner to the front, as soon as it is unmasked, and will then be halted and deployed
by the flank on the file indicated. Each of the other companies will be marched by the flank, and
when its interval is taken, will be moved on the line, halted and deployed as soon as the company
next toward the direction shall have finished its deployment.

         188. It has been prescribed to place the reserves in echelon, in order that they may, in the
event of a rally, be able to protect themselves without injuring each other; and the reserves of
two contiguous companies have been united in order to diminish the number of the echelons, and
to increase their capacity for resisting cavalry.

         189. The echelons, in the example given, descend from right to left, but they may, on an
indication from the colonel to that effect, be posted on the same principle, so as to descend from
left to right.

         190. When the color-company is to be deployed as skirmishers, the color, without its
guard, will be detached, and remain with the battalion reserve.

         0-191. In the deployments of the battalion, one or both, of the companies of skirmishers,
can either constitute a part of the battalion reserve, or take their places in the line of skirmishers
as the colonel may desire; in the latter case, they will take their appointed places previous to the
commencement of the deployment.

                                             THE ASSEMBLY.

         192. When the colonel wishes to assemble the battalion, he will cause the assemble on
the battalion to be sounded. The companies deployed as skirmishers will be assembled on their
respective reserves, and then proceed to join the battalion reserve; they will take places in the
battalion in their proper order.
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  136
INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.  137

                                                THE RALLY.

         193. The colonel may cause all the various movements prescribed for a company, to be
executed by the battalion, and by the same commands and the same signals. When he wish to
rally the battalion, he will cause the rally the battalion to be sounded, and will so disposed his
reserve as to protect this movement.

         194. The companies deployed as skirmishers will be rallied in squares on their respective
reserves; each reserve of two contiguous companies will form the first front of the square,
throwing to the rear the sections on the flanks; the skirmishers who arrive first will complete the
lateral fronts, and the last, the fourth front. The officers and sergeants will superintend the rally,
and as fast as the men arrive, they will form them into two ranks, without regard to height, and
cause them to face outward.

         195. The rally being effected, the commanders of squares will profit by any interval of
time the cavalry may allow for putting them in safety, either by marching upon the battalion
reserve, or by seizing an advantageous position; to this end, each of the squares will be formed
into column, and march in this order; and if threatened anew, it will halt, and again form itself
into square.

         196. As the companies successively arrive near the battalion-reserve, each will reform as
promptly as possible, and, without regard to designation or number, take place in the column
next in rear of the companies already in it.

         197. The battalion reserve will also form square, if itself threatened by cavalry. In this
case, the companies, in marching toward it, will place themselves promptly in the sectors without
fire, and thus march on the squares.

         0-198. If the battalion column has time to form divisions before forming square, the
companies of skirmishers will take the position prescribed in the School of the Battalion.

                           END OF INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  138
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.

MANUAL OF THE SWORD OR SABRE, FOR OFFICERS.

POSITION OF THE SWORD OR SABRE, UNDER ARMS.

         The carry. The grip is in the right hand, which will be supported against the right hip,
the back of the blade against the shoulder.

                        TO SALUTE WITH THE SWORD OR SABRE.

                                          Three times (or pauses).

         One. At the distance of six paces from the person to be saluted, raise the sword or saber
perpendicularly, the point up, the flat of the blade opposite to the right eye, the guard at the
height of the shoulder, the elbow supported on the body.

         Two. Drop the point of the sword or saber by extending the arm, so that the right hand
many be brought to the side of the right thigh, and remain in that position until the person to
whom the salute is rendered shall be passed, or shall have passed, six paces.

         Three. Raise the sword or saber smartly, and place the back of the blade against the right
shoulder.

                                               _______________

                                             COLOR-SALUTE.

         In the ranks, the color-bearer, whether at a halt or in march, will always carry the heel of
the color-lance supported at the right hip, the right hand generally placed on the lance at the
height of the shoulder, to hold it steady. When the color has to render honors, the color-bearer
will salute as follows:

         At the distance of six paces slip the right hand along the lance to the height of the eye;
lower the lance by straightening the arm to its full extent, the heel of the lance remaining at the
hip, and bring back the lance to the habitual position when the person saluted shall be passed, or
shall have passed, six paces.

                                               _______________

                          MANUAL FOR RELIEVING SENTINELS.

                                                 Arms--PORT.

                                         One time and one motion.

         Throw the piece diagonally across the body, the lock to the front, seize it smartly at the
same instance with both hands, the right at the handle, the left at the lower band, the two thumbs
pointing toward the muzzle, the barrel sloping upward and crossing opposite the point of the left
shoulder, the butt proportionally lowered. The palm of the right hand will be above, and that of
the left under the piece, the nails of both hands next to the body, to which the elbows will be
closed.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  139
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.

Shoulder--ARMS.

One time and two motions.

         (First Motion.) Bring the piece smartly to the right shoulder, placing the right hand as in
the position of shoulder arms, slip the left hand to the height of the shoulder, the fingers
extended.

         (Second Motion.) Drop the left hand smartly by the side.
         Being on parade and at order arms, if it be wished to give the men rest, the command will
be:

                                                Parade--REST.

         At the command rest, turn he piece on the heel of the butt, the barrel to the left, the
muzzle in front of the centre of the body; seize it at the same time with the left hand just above,
and with the right at the upper band; carry the right foot six inches to the rear, the left knee
slightly bent.

                                               _______________

   INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR (OR PRINCIPAL MUSICIAN).

         The posts of the field music and band have been given, Title I., for the order in battle.
         In column in manoeuvre, the field music and band will march abreast with the left centre
company, and on the side opposite the guide, unless otherwise specified in the manoeuvre.
         In column in route, as well as in the passage of defiles to the front or in retreat, they will
march at the head of their respective battalions.

           BEATS OF THE DRUM, AND THE SOUNDS OF THE BUGLE.

                                      General calls on the drum.

The beats of the drum for infantry, independent of mere police calls, are fixed at fifteen.
1. The general.
2. The assembly.
3. To the color.
4. The long roll.
5. Common time (90 steps to the minute).
6. Quick time.
7. Double quick time.
8. The reveille.
9. The troop.
10. The retreat.
11. The tattoo.
12. To recall detachments.
13. Drummer's call.
14. Come for orders.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING   140
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.

First Sergeant's call.
Sergeant's call.
Corporal's call.
15. The roll (to cease firing).

                      Beats on the drum for skirmishers.

         These beats are to be used only when the bugle cannot be obtained, as is prescribed in the
instructions for skirmishers No. 10.

1. Double quick time.
2. The run.
3. Deploy as skirmishers.
4. Forward.
5. In retreat.
6. Halt.
7. By the right flank.
8. By the left flank.
9. Commence firing.
10. Cease firing.
11. Change direction to the right.
12. Change direction to the left.
13. Lie down.
14. Rise up.
15. Rally by fours.
16. Rally by sections.
17. Rally by platoons.
18. Rally upon the reserve.
19. Rally upon the battalion.
20. Assemble on the battalion.

                            General calls on the bugle.

         1. Attention.
         2. Signal of execution (to be given by the general commanding more than one brigade
of the line).
         3. The general.
         4. The assembly.
         5. To the color.
         6. The recall.
         7. Quick time.
         8. Double quick time.
         9. The charge.
         10. The reveille.
         11. Retreat.
         12. Tattoo.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING      141
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.

13. To extinguish lights.
14. Assembly of the bugles.
15. Assembly of the guard.
16. Orders for orderly sergeants.
17. For officers to take their places in line after firing.
18. The disperse.
19. Officer's call.
20. Breakfast call.
21. Dinner call.
22. Sick call.
23. Fatigue call.
24. Church call.
25. Drill call.
26. School call.

                      Calls on the bugle for skirmishers.

1. Fix bayonet.
2. Unfix bayonet.
3. Quick time.
4. Double quick time.
5. The run.
6. Deploy as skirmishers.
7. Forward.
8. In retreat.
9. Halt.
10. By the right flank.
11. By the left flank.
12. Commence firing.
13. Cease firing.
14. Change direction to the right.
15. Change direction to the left.
16. Lie down.
17. Rise up.
18. Rally by fours.
19. Rally by sections.
20. Rally by platoon.
21. Rally on the reserve.
22. Rally on the battalion.
23. Assemble on the battalion.

         NOTE. ­ When the whole of the troops, in the same camp or garrison, are to depart, the
general, the assembly, and to the color, will be beaten or sounded, at the proper intervals, in the
order mentioned. At the first, the troops will prepare for the movement; at the second, they will
form by company, and at the third unite by battalion.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING        142
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.

Signals of the drum-major for the principal beats and sounds.

         1. The general. Extend the right arm, seize the staff in the middle, and raise the head of
the staff to the height of the neck.

         2. The assembly. Extend the right arm, raise the staff about a foot from the ground, and
place the thumb upon its head.

         3. To the color. Raise the arm, and turn the wrist inward so as to make the staff cross
horizontally in front of the body, at the height of the neck.

         4. The long roll. Place the staff upon of right shoulder, the ferrule to the rear.
         5. Common time. Raise the staff perpendicularly, the ferrule upward, the right arm
extended, and at the height of the shoulder.
         6. Quick time. Raise the staff, the right arm extended, the palm of the hand turned to the
front, the head of the staff higher than the right shoulder, the ferrule at the heights and in front of
the sword hilt.
         7. Double quick time. Point the staff directly forward, the ferrule in advance, the right
forearm extended, and indicate the rapidity of the gait by shaking the right hand.
         8. The reveille. Take the staff in the left hand, and place the thumb upon its head, the
hand at the height of the left shoulder.
         9. The retreat. Pass the staff crosswise behind the back.
         10. Church call. Place the head of the staff upon the right shoulder.
         11. The roll (to cease firing). Extend the right arm, and shake the arm and staff sharply.

               Signals for the manoeuvres of the field music and band.

         1. To march by the right flank. Seize the staff in the middle, and extend the arm to the
right.

         2. To march by the left flank. Make the same signal, extending the arm to the left.
         3. To diminish front. Let the ferrule of the staff fall into the left hand, held at the height
of the eyes.
         4. To increase front. Let the head of the staff fall into the left hand, held at the height of
the eyes.
         5. To change direction. Turn half around toward the line, and indicate by a movement of
the staff, to which side the change is to be made.
         6. To oblique to the right. Extend the right arm at the height of the shoulder, holding the
staff in a slanting position, and seize the ferrule with the left hand at the height of the hip.
         7. To oblique to the left. Make the contrary signal, the head of the staff, always
indicating the side toward which the oblique is to be made.

                                         To ground drums, &c.

         1. To put up drumsticks. Seize the staff under the head, raise it as high as the eyes,
extending the arm forward.

         2. To unsling drums. Place the head of the staff against the breast.
         3. To ground drums. Same signal as for putting up drumsticks.
         4. To take up drums. Same signal as for grounding drums.
         5. To sling drums. Same signal as for unslinging.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING           143
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.

6. To take drumsticks. Same signal as for putting up drumsticks.

BEATS OF THE DRUM.

                _______________

Explanation of the Signs for the Drum.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  144
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  145
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  146
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  147
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  148
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  149
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  150
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  151
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  152
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  153
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  154
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  155
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  156
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  157
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  158
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  159
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  160
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  161
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  162
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  163
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  164
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  165
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  166
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  167
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  168
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  169
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  170
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  171
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  172
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  173
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  174
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  175
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  176
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  177
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  178
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  179
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  180
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
MANUAL OF THE SWORD, COLOR-SALUTE, MANUAL FOR RELIEVING  181
SENTINELS, AND INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  182

            TABLE OF CONTENTS.

                                               _______________

                                  VOL. I.

                                               _______________

                                     TITLE I.

                                                  ARTICLE I.

                     FORMATION OF INFANTRY IN ORDER OF BATTLE.
                                                                                                             PAGE.

Formation if line of battle composed of several brigades (No. 1) ...................................................3
Formation in line of battle of a brigade (No. 5)...............................................................................3
Formation in line of battle of a regiment (No. 6).............................................................................3
Position of companies of skirmishers (No. 9)..................................................................................3
Manner of forming company in two ranks (No. 15)........................................................................4
Posts of company officers, sergeants, and corporals (No. 19).........................................................4
Posts of field officers and regimental staff (No. 33)........................................................................5
Posts of field music and band (No. 41)............................................................................................5
Color guards (No. 43) ......................................................................................................................6
General guides (No. 47)...................................................................................................................6

                                                  ARTICLE II.

Instruction of the battalion (No. 49) ................................................................................................6
Instruction of officers (No. 60)........................................................................................................7
Instruction of sergeants (No. 63) .....................................................................................................7
Instruction of corporals (No. 66) .....................................................................................................8
Commands (No. 69).........................................................................................................................8

                                     TITLE II.

                                       SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER

                                                 PART FIRST.

General rules and division of the School of the Soldier (No. 77)....................................................9

                                                   LESSON I.

Position of the soldier (No. 85)......................................................................................................10
Remarks on position of a soldier (No. 86).....................................................................................10
Eyes right, left, front (No. 87) .......................................................................................................12
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  183

Rest, attention (No. 92)..................................................................................................................12

                                                   LESSON II.

Facings (No. 95) ............................................................................................................................12

                                                  LESSON III.

Principles of the direct step--common time (No. 101) .................................................................13
Quick time (No. 109) .....................................................................................................................14

                                                  LESSON IV.

Principles of the double quick step (No. 111) ...............................................................................14

                                               PART SECOND.

General rules (No. 125) .................................................................................................................15

                                                   LESSON I.

Principles of shouldered arms (No. 127) .......................................................................................15

                                                   LESSON II.

Manual of arms (No. 134)..............................................................................................................17
Support arms, rest at support arms (No. 139) ................................................................................17
Shoulder arms, from support arms (No. 147) ................................................................................19
Present arms (No. 150) ..................................................................................................................19
Shoulder arms from present arms (No. 152)..................................................................................21
Order arms (No. 154).....................................................................................................................21
Position of order arms (No. 156) ...................................................................................................21
Shoulder arms from order arms (No. 161).....................................................................................23
Load in nine times from the shoulder (No. 163)............................................................................23
Ready (No. 178).............................................................................................................................27
Aim (No. 181)................................................................................................................................27
Fire (No. 184) ................................................................................................................................29
Load from position of aim (No. 186).............................................................................................29
Shoulder arms from the position of aim (No. 189) ........................................................................29
Recover arms (No. 191).................................................................................................................29
Shoulder arms from position of loading (No. 193)........................................................................31
Load in eight times (No. 195) ........................................................................................................31
Fix bayonet (No. 197) ....................................................................................................................31
Shoulder arms from position of fix bayonet (No. 200)..................................................................31
Charge bayonet (No. 202)..............................................................................................................32
Shoulder arms from position of charge bayonet (No. 204) ...........................................................32
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  184

Trail arms (No. 206) ......................................................................................................................32
Shoulder arms from position of trail arms (No. 208) ....................................................................32
Unfix bayonet (No. 209) ................................................................................................................32
Shoulder arms from position of unfix bayonet (No. 211)..............................................................34
Secure arms (No. 213) ...................................................................................................................34
Shoulder arms from position of secure arms (No. 216).................................................................34
Right shoulder shift arms from position of shoulder arms (No. 219)............................................36
Shoulder arms from position of right shoulder shift arms (No. 221) ............................................36
Right shoulder shift arms from position of support arms (No. 224)..............................................36
Support arms from position of right shoulder shift arms (No. 226) ..............................................36
Arms at will (No. 228)...................................................................................................................39
Ground arms (No. 231) ..................................................................................................................39
Raise arms (No. 233) .....................................................................................................................39
Inspection of arms (No. 235) .........................................................................................................39
Spring rammers (No. 243) .............................................................................................................41
To mark time (No. 249) .................................................................................................................42
To change step (No. 253)...............................................................................................................42
To march backward (No. 255).......................................................................................................42

                                                  LESSON III.

To load in four times (No. 259) .....................................................................................................43
To load at will (No. 265) ...............................................................................................................43

                                                  LESSON IV.

The direct fire (No. 269) ................................................................................................................44
Cease firing (No. 274) ...................................................................................................................44
Position of two ranks in oblique fire to the right (No. 276)...........................................................44
Position of two ranks in oblique fire to the left (No. 279) .............................................................44
To fire by file (No. 282).................................................................................................................45
To fire by rank (No. 292)...............................................................................................................45

                                                   LESSON V.

To fire and load kneeling (No. 299) ..............................................................................................46
To fire and load lying (No. 307) ....................................................................................................48

                                                  LESSON VI.

Bayonet exercise (No. 313) ...........................................................................................................48
Guard against infantry (No. 314) ...................................................................................................48
Guard against cavalry (No. 317)....................................................................................................50
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  185

                                                 PART THIRD.

                                                   LESSON I.

Alignments (No. 320) ....................................................................................................................50
Right or left dress, front (No. 326) ................................................................................................52
Right or left backward dress, front (No. 331) ................................................................................52

                                                   LESSON II.

To march to the front (No. 334).....................................................................................................53
Right or left oblique (No. 340) ......................................................................................................53
To march to the front in double quick time (No. 343)...................................................................54
To face about in marching (No. 352).............................................................................................54
To face about and halt (No. 355) ...................................................................................................55
To march backward (No. 356).......................................................................................................55

                                                  LESSON III.

The march by the flank (No. 362)..................................................................................................55
To change by file to left or right (No. 372) ...................................................................................56
To face by right or left flank in marching (No. 374) .....................................................................57
To face by right or left flank and halt (No. 379)............................................................................57
To march by flank in double quick time (No. 381) .......................................................................57

                                                  LESSON IV.

General principles of wheeling (No. 390) .....................................................................................58
Right or left wheel from a halt (No. 396) ......................................................................................58
Remarks on the principles of the wheel from a halt (No. 405)......................................................59
Wheeling in marching on a movable pivot (No. 406) ...................................................................59
Right or left wheel when marching (No. 407) ...............................................................................60
Turning or changing directions to the side of the guide (No. 413)................................................60
Wheeling and changing direction to the side of the guide in double quick time (No. 416) ..........61

                                                   LESSON V.

Long marches in double quick time, and the run (No. 418) ..........................................................61
To stack arms (No. 423) ................................................................................................................61
To break ranks (No. 426) ...............................................................................................................62
To resume arms (No. 427) .............................................................................................................62

                                    TITLE III.

                                     SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  186

General rules and division of the School of the Company (No. 1)................................................63
In each rank count twos (No. 4).....................................................................................................64

                                                   LESSON I.

To open ranks (No. 8) ....................................................................................................................64
Alignments in open ranks (No. 18)................................................................................................65
Manual of arms (No. 26)................................................................................................................66
To close ranks (No. 28)..................................................................................................................67
Alignments and manual of arms in closed ranks (No. 30).............................................................67
In place, rest (No. 37) ....................................................................................................................67

                                                   LESSON II.

To load in four times and at will (No. 44) .....................................................................................68
To fire by company (No. 48) .........................................................................................................68
To fire by file (No. 55)...................................................................................................................69
To fire by rank (No. 58).................................................................................................................69
To fire by the rear-rank (No. 68) ...................................................................................................70

                                                  LESSON III.

To advance in line of battle (No. 84) .............................................................................................71
To halt the company marching in line of battle, and to align it (No. 99) ......................................73
Oblique march in line of battle (No. 101)......................................................................................73
To mark time, to march in double quick time, and the back step (No. 109) .................................74
To march in retreat (No. 119) ........................................................................................................75

                                                  LESSON IV.

To march by the flank (No. 137) ...................................................................................................78
To change direction by file (No. 144)............................................................................................78
To halt the company marching by the flank and to face it to the front (No. 147) .........................79
The company being in march by the flank, to form it on the right (or left) by file, into line of

    battle (No. 150) ........................................................................................................................79
The company being in march by the flank, to form it by company or by platoon into line, and

    cause it to face to the right and left in marching (No. 155) .....................................................81

                                                   LESSON V.

To break into column by platoon either at a halt or on march (No. 176) ......................................84
To march in column (No. 200) ......................................................................................................88
To change direction (No. 216) .......................................................................................................89
To halt the column (No. 236).........................................................................................................91
Being in column by platoon to form to the right or left into line of battle either at a halt or on the

    march (No. 240) .......................................................................................................................91
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  187

                                                  LESSON VI.

To break the company into platoons and to reform the company (No. 270) .................................95
Being in column, to break files to the rear and to cause them to re-enter into line (No. 294).......98
To march in column in route, and to execute the movements incident thereto (No. 311)...........101
Countermarch (No. 343) ..............................................................................................................104
Being in column by platoon to form on the right or left into line of battle (No. 352).................106
Formation of a company from two ranks into single rank and reciprocally (No. 368) ...............107
Formation of a company from two ranks into four and reciprocally at a halt and marching (No.

    380) ........................................................................................................................................108

                                    TITLE IV.

                                 INSTRUCTION FOR SKIRMISHERS.

General principles and division of the Instruction (No. 1) ..........................................................111

                                                  ARTICLE I.

Deployments (No. 15)..................................................................................................................112
To deploy forward (No. 22).........................................................................................................114
To deploy by the flank (No. 37) ..................................................................................................116
To extend intervals (No. 51)........................................................................................................118
To close intervals (No. 59) ..........................................................................................................120
To relieve a company deployed as skirmishers (No. 66).............................................................120

                                                  ARTICLE II.

To advance in line (No. 70) .........................................................................................................122
To retreat in line (No. 79) ............................................................................................................122
To change direction (No. 86) .......................................................................................................123
To march by the flank (No. 96) ...................................................................................................124

                                                 ARTICLE III.

To fire at a halt (No. 107) ............................................................................................................125
To fire marching (No. 111)..........................................................................................................125

                                                 ARTICLE IV.

The rally (No. 127) ......................................................................................................................127
To form column to march in any direction (No. 146) .................................................................127
The assembly (No. 163)...............................................................................................................133
TABLE OF CONTENTS.  188

                                                  ARTICLE V.

To deploy a battalion as skirmishers (No. 172) ...........................................................................134
To rally the battalion deployed as skirmishers (No. 193)............................................................137

                   MANUAL OF THE SWORD OR SABRE, FOR OFFICERS.

Position of the sword or sabre, under arms ..................................................................................138
To salute with the sword or sabre ................................................................................................138

                                              COLOR-SALUTE.

Color-salute ..................................................................................................................................138

                              MANUAL FOR RELIEVING SENTINELS.

To relieve sentinels ......................................................................................................................138

         INSTRUCTION FOR THE DRUM-MAJOR (OR PRINCIPAL MUSICIAN).

General calls on the drum ............................................................................................................139
Beats on the drum for skirmishers ...............................................................................................140
General calls on the bugle............................................................................................................140
Calls on the bugle for skirmishers ...............................................................................................141
Signals of the drum-major for the principal beats and sounds ....................................................141
Signals for the manoeuvres of the field music and band ..............................................................142
To ground drums, &c ...................................................................................................................142

                                          BEATS OF THE DRUM.

Explanation of the signs for the drum..........................................................................................143
Length and proportion of the notes and rests...............................................................................144
General calls on the drum ............................................................................................................145
Beats on the drum for skirmishers ...............................................................................................156
Explanation of the signs for the bugle .........................................................................................162
General calls on the bugle............................................................................................................162
Calls on the bugle for skirmishers ...............................................................................................174
